one Jonathan you're the first man not
only the first man I've ever met who
made his own leather jacket absolutely
the first man who made his own leather
jacket has ever been on the podcast
wearing that jacket well I thank you so
much the fucking sweet jacket man I'd
show you my g-string but it's a little
much for this time of day
well how are you functioning I use it
like on the side how you tie in that one
well I like I prefer a sinner rear yank
so does my wife because it's you can
just put the leash right on it and you
know you for one keep sir
when did you get into making leather
stuff is that a recent thing about three
years ago but I mean Joe my whole life
I've just been a rampant fan of
craftsmanship and I've done various deep
dives throughout my life into like all
sorts of different art forms in fact the
reason automotive design became my thing
and turned into a business was because
my hobbies of painting and sculpting and
and finished carpentry woodwork and all
these different things if you think
about it transportation is like this
incredibly communicable extroverted
combination of so many different art
forms yeah so I've been also as in my
travels in the last ten years or so or
maybe five I've really been focusing on
always have been focusing on like
getting immersed in that local culture
but now I've stepped that up a notch and
I'm doing like these deep dive travels
into different art forms of different
cultures so leathercraft I've been
visiting tanneries and studying from
masters in the US and in Morocco and
Mexico I just got back locks last week
from Mexico doing it really yeah it's
super fun and it's in because for me now
at this point the scale of this shop is
such that I'm actually doing a
disservice if I'm out there actually
building your car right and because
that's what I used to do I've welded in
to shape it and I was on the floor but
at our size I'm I'm not and our fill
rates as you recall suck it takes
forever for us to finish anything and
there's something about just literally
putting on your podcast going in my
spare bedroom at home because my son's
off at college the second his ass was
out of there's like leather studio and
there's totally built that sucker out
with really good audio and lighting and
stuff so being able to come from sketch
to have finished good within a matter of
weeks a hundred percent myself
independent of everything I needed that
I've really kind of felt I was losing
that tactile craft connection at work
well what you do is so unusual and I'm
there's other people that build cars
there's other people that do do
innovative things with automobiles but
what you're doing is at a level and with
it with an obsessiveness that is to me
deserves be rewarded I love it I love
the fact that you make these fucking I
love the fact that you do those dare
licks where you leave the patina on the
cars well you take these beautiful old
cars that have explorer giuse because of
the life that they've lived totally we
do the inside so you can drive them
really well yeah Mel bad you see it and
you're down with the romantic sort of ya
know rosy eyes a memory and then you
actually drive a vintage vehicle for
most people in the modern world after a
couple modulate well that sucks I have a
very peculiar obsession with cars but
it's not it's not why'd I go from like
1965 to 1972 like with Broncos maybe 72
and then that's it and then there's
modern cars like nineties cars I'm cool
with I like 2000 cars but all those 70s
and 80s cars can only ship Sokcho I'm
right there with you and like people
bring me all sorts of requests to do
later model cars and in anyway used to
like try and get my head around it in
fact we did a Caprice Classic I saw that
thing what a shit show man but what a
ridiculously overbuilt car that thing
was super gnarly but in reality was at
the end of the day I was rearranging
deck chairs on the Titanic because it
was still a 90s piece of shit built
poorly by people who didn't give a damn
and that version of it well we had
fucking sporty yeah you know that video
got like a half a million views in like
half a day and the client just freaked
out he's like dude the whole point of
this car is to be under the radar could
you please remove the video
oh yes we had to take everything down
but for those that didn't see it it was
an ex miami-dade narc undercover car and
the client came to me with like a pretty
direct and simple mandate he goes
basically like I I trust what you do and
your instincts and design the whole
purpose of the car I wanted to say get
the fuck out of my lane that was it that
was my mandate for the bill I'm like I
can do that
you know that's fun that's a fun
challenge you guys had that thing for a
long time yeah it was it was a long and
arduous build for sure but you know
think the guy's brother passed away in a
plane crash and ever since his passing
his brothers refused to get on an
airplane but he has a ranch in one state
and businesses in other states and he
does a lot of Interstate high speed
travel so we set it up as a full-on
mobile office plus a bunch of James Bond
hidden oddities and shipped on her
performance and what can people get out
of his Lane what kind of engine do the
thing if I recall I think that one had
an LS 9 so dry something are cold very
similar to your LSA motors yeah but same
here like the continuity in the design
and the consideration but you know by
the time you get into the 70s even I'd
argue late 60s 70s like the aesthetic is
super sexy but then you get inside and
execution the material choice and
everything is just sucks yeah that's why
I like resto mods like I don't know if
you've seen it by 1965 Corvette that I
have out there yeah it was just where I
came in
that's that's what I like I like cars
that look like an old car on the outside
but that have disc brakes and modern
suspension and you know and it's a
slippery slope
right ready to stop but for me one thing
that I'm keen to do with everything that
we build you know be at the derelict
soar the reformer one-offs or the
production models more and more I'm
pulling back on my redesign on the
cosmetics to make sure I'm not creating
something temporary or trendy in that I
want to honor the original design
language of the era in which a vehicle
was built now I may want to elevate that
and geek out on it and do unnecessarily
cool shit that the production you know
our company would have done but I'm
trying to be super careful not to do
something that like in ten years is like
you know some fuchsia graphics eighties
hot rod all smooth II doubt that just
represents them like a reef moment in
time gym ball a Porsche yeah did you see
the new one yeah it looks like an RC car
and I don't I haven't decided in a
fucked up bad where and a fucked up
really good one I'm not sure yeah it's
one of those things where just some
people have too much money you know
you're making a four-wheel drive
off-road Porsche although Matt Farah
from the smoke you know man he has an
off-road 1980s Porsche yeah yes it's one
of those you know the really nasty
upholstery in that yeah you can blame me
forget some really weird stuff no I love
all the weird sourcing you doing I'm
like well how weird do you want
disgusting it is I don't know why he's
into it but it's almost like a Atlanta
you know Marta bus yeah like a eighties
public transit right yeah it's it's foul
but it's uh it's a rally car you know I
mean he has the rally caller lights in
the front I mean it looks like a rally
car but it won't perform like a rally
won't no no I don't think so I mean it's
like an enthusiast car at the end of the
day you have a shitty car in a crappy
boat you got a picture poison like I
thought he thought yeah it actually was
like a car that you could rally know
things I mean you know it's got coil
overs and a couple things here and there
but you know at the end of the day it it
is what it is and it wasn't built to do
that mmm I thought he had built it that
way he did see this many mods as could
be done within those confines they do
Drive those fucking things on dirt roads
it's really weird those rallies when you
watch them online it's like Jesus Christ
first of all who are these assholes
standing next to the road while these
people go on sideways around corners
where are the lawyers yeah
why are you trusting these people have
you ever seen anything in the old Paris
to Peking race no I'm so fascinated by
that so I can't remember his name right
now Luigi was the first name so it
started in the turn of the early 1900s I
believe it was one of the first large
international rallies and the there's a
wonderful
biography written by the son of count
Luigi whatever who started it and it all
started as a drunken dinnertime bet and
the the idea was you know I bet it can't
be done he's like of course that
couldn't be done so the the thing was
alright whoever's gonna go for it let's
go hard whoever wins gets a magnum of
champagne and it's like you know the
race took months and months and months
but phenomenal like it's on my bucket
list that would be such a phenomenal
experience to do and can you imagine
doing it in like 1917 Jesus Christ they
were going through villages that had
never seen a round eye not to mention a
motor vehicle and all the photography
and all the old data put into the all
the original Diaries of the driver and
the co-drivers it's just such an amazing
explain to people who don't know what
we're talking about what this race is so
it's a race by land from Paris to Peking
and it goes through a Mongolian all
sorts of middle-of-nowhere situations in
fact that you leave it a bit up here
cancelled and rerouted several times to
different geopolitical dramas I wouldn't
even know that Paris in Peking were
connected like that right who would have
thunk it I never really thought about it
and I think worse it's like a three
month race so it's a serious commitment
but wouldn't that just be the adventure
of a lifetime you know Andrew Picard
right no a CP it's a great race car
driver dear friend of mine you don't
know him I would know you've been on
this show no no no yes so I've already
been talking to him and a dear friend of
mine with it you know my buddy with a
dc-3 that you see me flying are humming
sometimes did no.3 dc-3 airplane 1944 no
oh so stupid stupid absurd hidden car
collection in central California so I've
been slowly lobbying him and you know
invited Andrew ACP to a dinner to start
sort of planning that see then they
don't realize I don't think either of
them realize it yet they're gonna
realize now they're part of the team
what are you doing I want to do damned
Paris Peking no you don't hell yeah
three months yep oh my god I just as
Christ doing yet but I want to do it
really see trying to put it together
yeah as a travel geek in as a car geek
and as a culture geek like hello
why why on earth would I so much you use
a modern card no you can't it's okay
yeah no very stringent very vintage
oh yeah like all these photos just nuts
and that's an incredibly contemporary
card for usually you're talking about
Larry five six is like those oh no like
rolls open touring cars offices and like
super weird early shit open wheel cars
that's what those people do yeah so
there's these are hundred-year-old cars
yeah and that that car in fact in that
image is a replica of the actual
original car that started the entire
race oh my god this super super cool
experience especially you have to read
in that book that's how you would want
to do it well I don't know if I'd want
to go brass air a bad shit about it well
where would you stop you wouldn't go
1979 Datsun you know I think a Volvo
sugar what's that sugar it basically
looks like if a 48 humpback Ford and a
Power Wagon had a lovechild it would be
a volvo shu GGA i need to see this thing
it's super trippy
i think one of those all rallied out
vintage would be super super cool su g
oh that's actually a cool looking car
they're super fast beautiful right
inland like the ugliest way what is that
but is that an aftermarket so no that's
the wheels and everything dead factory
other than those are more contemporary
tires go go with that last image it you
had Jamie with the crazy tires that
thing is fucking cool oh yeah there's no
the last image so solid before that yeah
but I want the other image that one
right there like look at the wheels on
that thing yeah they usually that's
usually they were command cars
commanding officer cars so the back area
on the interior was generally kitted out
quarter-sawn dovetailed fumed white oak
with like a teletype machine and all
their early correspondents gear and
there's such a freak of a car that is
beautiful yeah that's such a cool little
car I'd love to see that with like
modern headlights I'd like to see that
with yeah like on
forties yeah solid axles
Fox Racing coil overs
has anyone done that no there was one
that made the rounds I think it was last
year I saw it at SEMA that did more of a
sort of conventional contemporary hotrod
Street rod build but they kind of not
the way you and I are thinking that is
so cool-looking I've never seen that car
before
there's superfreak no one really knows
about him they're one of those odd
moments in automotive history what size
are they like with it so there's no
nothing to come to it I mean it's like a
48 humpback Tudor Ford or anything to
you it's it's sort of not into
post-world War two so it's like a mid
forties standard four-door sedan scale
other than its height they're pretty
reasonable they're probably really hard
to find though right stupid are defined
I believe there's eight of them known in
North America but you know whatever you
bring one over from Europe there is a
shame to chew it up yeah no I'm over
that I'll tell you what at the end of
the day what's actually getting used and
enjoyed and creating more memories none
of my vehicles that are hacked and
ruined as people like to say
occasionally or something sitting in
some static collection gathering they
say that about the derelict swen you
redo the interiors oh sure everyone
everyone likes to talk shit well I kind
of enjoy it
what I was gonna say about cars I have
this very narrow window so if I see like
a really cool 55 Chevy it's great I
never want to own one
really I don't what about I don't do it
how far back can I take you like 65 like
super Mets it's those that year like
like a bubble top 63 Pontiac or Chevy
years too early no it's like the the
second generation Corvette is as early
as I go and then really look to 67
Mustang what year we long 667 okay so
that's the problem but it's not it's my
high school years during my high school
years in the 80s that was those were the
cool cars the cool cars were the snow
it's what I think that's what I mean
we've identified the problem it's not
even a problem it's just like too mean
like like the quintessential shape is
like a 69 Camaro
there's something about a 69 Camaro like
goddamned they
they just it's a timeless classic it'll
always be they've been crawling under my
skin lately I've been Camaro yeah I
think it'd be interesting to do one
because if you look back in the design
history they were the design team and
executives a GM designed that car
basically in reaction to trends and
European touring cars and sports cars so
there's a lot of Ferrari Direct Ferrari
inspiration like 275 s and stuff so I
always thought it'd be interesting to do
a elevated more European perspective
version of that gen Camaro like devoid
of badges not like I'll smooth it out
like everyone does but just like elevate
the trim but like that kick-ass
egg-crate grille and all those details
like do it more the way a small
coachbuilder would have done it than
production hmm there's something to him
for sure yeah when Matt was here last he
was showing me there's a company that
takes an older Ferrari what was it which
which model was it
do you remember Jamie they took an older
Ferrari and puts a much more modern
Ferrari engine and completely read does
everything but makes it so that was a
GTO was it the norwood p4 or was a gto
engineering in LA in the UK they do a
lot of gto builds but they stay pretty
true to the original form but phil
norwood who used to actually race for
ferrari he's I don't think he's doing
him anymore but he for a while in Texas
I believe was doing what they called the
p4 Norwood and those are so badass
so like Monaco Superleggera lightweight
and they were using modern I think at
that time they were what are they taken
like wreck testarossa's or something
some modern Ferrari powertrain and but
keeping like the original race aesthetic
I'm not sure what company's doing it but
what they were doing essentially was
making everything that you could remove
and put it back to the original stock
form including the engine including the
suspension including the transmission
including the brakes but everything was
aftermarket so they weren't cutting
anything there was sort of replacing
stuff but making this way better
way more high-performance version that
might be GTO and also man if you look at
one of their recreation cars that are
scratch build and you know the value of
the original GTO is is so nuts they're
now like a guy goes oh well yeah I'll
leave that in the collection and they'll
call GTO and say build me one that looks
just like my car and I actually want to
drive it and if you sit him side by side
the only difference is the GTO one has
better fit and finish in tolerances
otherwise you cannot tell them apart
hands down so the new one has better fit
oh hell yeah yeah the years a company
called Rev ology that doesn't that with
muscles yeah I'm cartel oh yeah they
make some beautiful car I do but I
wonder like smog in California would
probably a nightmare well yes so right
now unfortunately you know there's that
new law that Tom and myself and a lot of
other builders in our space have been
very active in trying to get past that
was for ultra low volume vehicular
manufacturers act so if we made under
350 units a year we'd be exempt from
crash and many expensive regulatory
limitations but we had to be responsible
for emissions so it's turned into a
complete shit show and it's already
three years beyond posting in fact SEMA
just filed suit against the federal
government for inaction because there
will outside of their legal timeframe to
actually create the damn paperwork to
enact the law and Tom's caught up in the
middle of that so right now he's been
putting General Motors ellas threes into
the Mustangs because it's the only thing
that smog legal because Ford Racing
hasn't bothered doesn't seem to see any
importance or value in creating a
mission certified powertrains when these
are using ls3 once the laws start again
a little sketchy Oh
so past a percentage and when Tom was
doing the new bodies and new everything
he's going down that road even all the
Cobra guys in emissions regulated states
are putting ls3 s in them Wow
because Ford does it's like I talked to
execs if I'm like you guys cool with
that like you don't see that's so that's
not good for branding and yeah there's
such spreadsheet junkies I don't think
that they see the value the struggle is
real yeah it seems like a bastardization
I mean there's
think about combining forward and like
it's really gross when they combine
Chevy and Mopar there's something about
putting an LS engine in a like an old
CUDA you're like what are you doing
I agree but like to a point I think if
we look forward that's changing because
as it is today you know you're Bentley
is your BMW is your Kia like everyone's
sharing the same pool of suppliers
anyway and a lot of these cars are just
bad cars nowadays anyway so I think
there's a wider acceptance as time
passes to oddities but I mean look at
that 49 electric mercury I did we
purposely like dress the quote-unquote
engine bay to look like an old speed
equipped v8 and you know vintage fend of
fent and header look you know the cast
to try and keep those old dudes engaged
and not to look out and go under true
you ruin you put my video it was a 49 so
we have 40 49 mercury electric it's on
the Jonathan Ward YouTube page you know
what that's amazing guess where it is
right now in the bottom of the lake not
that bad what it's stuck in Luxembourg
why well to long story but we were
honored that Goodyear invited us to have
it be the feature vehicle on their large
booth at the Geneva International Auto
Show so we jumped through hoops we put
on an airplane we sent it over their
show got canceled oh now all the
commercial because we we want it
traveling by air not by boat now all the
flights are canceled now other cargo is
getting prioritized so now we're
transporting it to Frankfurt and it's
like stuck in limbo
oh no yeah oh the coronavirus transport
yes you yeah shit when you gonna get
that back fuck if I know and that's a
client's car yeah fortunately the claim
is like one of the best humans we've
ever worked with and he's totally cool
about it but you know we're all nervous
we want the darn car back yeah what's a
one-of-a-kind you there it is now that
is one of the things that I love that
you do that I don't think anybody else
is going to do I don't think anybody
else would take that level of
engineering and
to rebuild something to that spectacular
level of detail but yet keep the fucked
up paint rolling down the street you
wouldn't have zero idea what that is
especially when that thing is that has
no transmission so it's dual electric
motors just under five hundred
foot-pounds of torque no shifts so it's
if it moves like a freight train yeah
the thing is so fast have you driven a
Tesla not you the S P 100 d yeah yeah
it's a preposterous vehicle yeah we put
the ad array in that with American
Racing motors and dual Reinhart
controllers and thermal management
network that we engineered a whole bunch
of stuff and when this guy charges us in
how many miles can he get 202 that's not
bad that's the more the Porsche Tyco and
essentially yeah well right but but yes
I can't afford to do fancy misleading
federal testing so I literally just make
sure my flatbed is at hand and just
drive the piss out of it until I can't
go and then I go okay there you go
there's the range well what the EPA or
whoever is doing the tests on the Tyco
and apparently they sold it way short
and all these automotive journalists
that have driven the car are saying no
we've gotten you know to 70 to 80
they've gotten quite a bit more than
that I think whoever the the government
rated at 201 yeah so it's it's quite a
bit more than that but but they're that
whole derelict program you know was like
many things in my life started just from
a stupid passionate idea like I didn't
ever never considered a business model
of doing it it was just okay I've got
two young kids I've got two labs I like
to do this I like to do that what do I
want is my next car and I'm like you
know what I'm tired of over restoring
shit because that's like my OCD I just
everything be perfect perfect and then
the first time you know the kids nail it
with a skateboard or I ding it with a
surfboard or the dog takes a piss and it
whatever like I don't wanna be that guy
anymore so said you know what I think I
like want to find something that's
already fucked up and I'm just gonna
leave it looking all fucked up so I
don't even I washing cars and hate
putting gas in them so with the derelict
all you do is clean the windows and
vacuum it at best and party on and then
I just put a
massive gas tanks so my old 52 DeSoto
station wagon was the first derelict
that I built hundred percent myself
nights and weekends just because I had
this stupid idea in my head and I wanted
to realize it
it wasn't until it was done and it got
like the cover a hot rod and won all
these awards that my dumb ass went oh
wait a minute
yeah we're honest and this still is you
know it fits within how we define the
icon brand holistically about revisiting
classic transportation design in a
modern context it's just a different way
of doing it so that was your first air
likely yeah what even derelict till I
was done and then we're like okay let's
brand them and we started getting tons
of requests we've built some pretty wild
array of them and your first one was for
you yeah yeah I mean but that speaks to
how weird it is that you're doing that
in the first place because most people
who are you know high-dollar restoration
and you know air-quote resto mods or
whatever you want to call them everyone
wants them to be beautiful and pristine
with you know handles that that
disappear you know I mean everybody
wants to shave everything down and
[Music]
moving a lot of the original character
of the design that they're supposed to
be celebrating in the first place so
that compounded by patina which tells a
more personal story of like where's this
carbon how did it get that ding there's
like romance and mystery all wrapped
into one as far as the history behind
all those finishes how many big is a gas
tank in this thing that one's got like a
42 gallon gas tank I was like spare tire
gas tank spare Derrick Mike screw it
three cans of fix-a-flat and a big-ass
gas tank I hate stopping for gas well
especially with something like that it
must get like four miles to the gallon
that actually is a full emissions
equipped modern srt8 Hemi 6.1 and it'll
get six you know what it's I don't
understand why but I'd have built
several Hemi based builds that is the
fastest and most fuel efficient of the
Hemi build I've ever done I mean that
thing gets probably fifteen seven real
yeah we're not much metal and I Drive it
like an ass I mean I'm flogging that
thing granted I'm on my third
transmission but oh really yeah to the
first two remote power trannies which
fellow builders of
laid them they suck if you add even like
five horsepower beyond the stock motor
app they completely shut themselves so
the third time I'm like that's it I'm
done pull the band-aid off throw that
thing away and put a good old GM 4-leaf
IV in there so this thing has how many
miles on it now
I got about thirty-eight thirty-nine
thousand miles on it so Wow
I love the split windshield - yeah it's
such a fun fun fun ride but you know
he's going all the way back to the
beginning of ikon even further back to
the beginning of the first brand TLC
they all started with personal cars mmm
like the icon idea was just another dumb
idea that was rattling in my head it was
literally keeping me up at night and it
got to the point that I need and this
happens to me often like well you know
when I did my watch and then all the
different products that I've designed
generally you'll start with something
that gets to the point that I'll lose my
remaining sanity if I don't actually
create it so I had the concept for icon
I could see it clearly in my head I had
like a full-on 3d detailed model in my
head and like my version of jumping over
sheeps at night in bed was like sitting
there and zooming in on an element and
changing that radius and scaling this
and trying that and it literally got to
the point told my life I'm like I got to
build it
I just gotta build it well your your
company it's sort of it's symbiotic with
social media in a sense particularly
YouTube because so many people on
YouTube are interested in unique builds
and interesting companies they're doing
cool things like rev ology mmm-hmm but
your company in particular it's so
perfect because you do all those videos
and you drive around the cars with this
incredible detail and that's one of the
first things that got me very attracted
to your company was the fact like I go
look at this motherfucker he's so balls
deep into this shit you're so into this
and if I'm not I won't take the job so
it's easy to say yeah you know it's so
contagious though when someone's like
really into something particularly
design and production and I totally like
if you're not totally into it and you're
not balls deep into it then pull out and
zip up and go home shut up yeah do
something else
is if you're not passionate about it you
you suck at it well particularly in this
world right in the world that you're in
and you know like your most classic
models are like your Bronco your f J's
like those those get the most amount of
attention I think online and those I
mean there's a lot of people making
Broncos there's a lot of people making
out there are now there are yeah well
you know you opened up a door there's a
lot of people that are making the exact
Bronco you make that it's so close it's
ridiculous they're redoing your grill
yeah yeah some people are like oh you
should be flattered I'm like no not
really like I'm flattered when I see an
industry swell around my first dumb idea
when you know you see the ravallo G's
and the singers and all these companies
having viable businesses revisiting
classic transportation design that I
absolutely love what I absolutely
despise is the Suckerfish that just will
go oh well they have a two-year waiting
list that doesn't look hard let's make a
company and let's make our business
model that we're just like icon but
we're quicker and cheaper like that just
irks the piss out but what do you know
what are you gonna do I can't say just
hard because some party on don't have
the money you know but they want a
Bronco you know I get it I see what
you're saying but I get it from their
perspective
no but from a consumer perspective I
understand the appeal of not having to
wait and not having to pay as much but
at best in this industry you get what
you pay for and frankly even that is a
rare equation what I'm more pissy about
is companies that go oh and now we can
charge more for it and let's just
deliver something that looks as close to
that and copy as much of its trade dress
and style and kick it out at a fat
margin at what's deemed to be the most
acceptable price point but what your
wait lists like why do you even fuck
with that like what do you why do you
pay attention to those maybe I'm
insecure and childish or maybe I'm
worried that you know past a point it's
going to erode our business one way or
another
I don't think no not Europe I mean it's
go like Scouts for example there's like
three or four companies now while doing
Scouts their way with their vision
they're realizing their dream and I like
I'm here to support him help them cheer
them on that's great it's when people
come into a market because they just
merely see a capital opportunity but
they have no passion or expertise in it
that's where I get pissy I understand
your perspective my perspective is
always a bandwidth perspective you say
if you your bandwidth is 104 that's all
of your attention that you have to even
give 10 of that to some knuckleheads
that are just copying it's true oMG it's
all it's all does it just takes away
from what you're doing and what you're
doing is amazing I think the last time I
thought about it prior to just now
pitching to you has been a good three or
four months so I don't think I don't
give it too much thought just every now
and then every now and then keep moving
yeah you were you were doing a bunch of
I mean I don't know how much you could
talk about this can you talk about that
little BMW no that doesn't exist no I
mean I guess now that we did talk about
it no I I have a couple we said is
little BMW has any model R&D projects in
the works that are again those odd
projects that we're keeping me up at
night and one of them includes doing
kind of a very progressive take on you
know even beyond how we've been known to
redesign classics taking that up ten
notches yeah with an early classic
iconic BMW and meanwhile it's killing me
it's it's I'm hemorrhaging money in it
I'm almost three-quarters of a mill deep
into that project well the other one
that we yeah for a long time like before
you built my Bronco which took a year to
build and I've had for a year and a half
yeah hopefully my wife doesn't listen
yeah I think it's been about four years
of work on it
yeah but I'm super stoked like when when
it's done yeah it's something like
nobody ever done seen before well I love
the
yeah behind it you know like I'm I'm a
fan of those cars those I'm a fan of the
original one and I'm a fan of you know
we're doing another one - that's you
know again sort of looking at how we've
done what we do and like how else could
we do it or how further could we evolve
it which as you've seen and working with
me like I'm doing that all the time and
all the little things but like
holistically conceptually how do you do
it so we're doing early C 20 Chevy truck
hmm and you know we were gonna do our
usual thing of you know engineer chassis
engineer the axles and call Brembo
design the brakes like and then you've
got like umpteen purchase orders from
umpteen different suppliers and a big
pile of cost and at the end of the day
you could say I mean we don't have
hundreds and millions of dollars in
development so we're building hopefully
a well-functioning what is in essence a
prototype so this time for the Chevy
truck I like screw it I'm going to the
dealer so I just went and bought the the
WT which people call the white trash
edition the WT series Chevy pickup so we
bought a 3/4 ton four wheel drive
brand-new Chevy truck off the dealer
floor for like 36 grand took that apart
and we're rebodied it with its
grandfather's body so now like ABS he'll
hold many of the perversions of
modernity everything is integrated and
literally the client could go to a Chevy
dealer although they probably cringe and
say no no no no it's not a 70 you know
look look here's the ID tag this then
from this 2019 truck that's what it is
so just service that's the service
product and the interior dead stock
c20 Wow so the gauges were working with
classic instruments to design an IP and
instrument panel that has the original
design aesthetic but then integrates the
little 3x3 digital screen for all of the
you know all your prompts and digital
what about airbags can't do that because
the body's not designed to absorb energy
thereby it's not compliant with airbag
hmm but we're keeping the entire
basically the entire truck - the airbags
and the HVAC system
in tact so how does someone register
that what is that registered as still as
the original truck because a client
brought us the c20 so then it's up to
the client say okay here's your legal
entities for both you pick which way you
want to title and party on and obviously
most people want to stay the traffic of
least resistance
yes stick with an exempt year yeah but
it meets 2019 emissions and everything
as cylinder deactivation and all sorts
of that's why I asked you about the
airbags it wouldn't meet come Koretz
yeah but that would be sick though yeah
would be you know for a while who was it
someone told me if he was Midas was
trying to think of ways to stay relevant
and they'd they were like knees deep and
investment in retrofit airbag systems
really yeah did they ever get it off and
go I mean it's an absolute engineering
shit show because there's so many
parameters you can't control it would
just never work if you were talking
about retrofitting things with ABS did
that overcome no and I still I'm dying
to do it so the only way that it's come
to fruition for me is like with your FC
j8e by maintaining the original ABS
system or such as the case with the C 20
by keeping the entire modern vehicle
active and just rebodied it but I mean
I'm dying for the aftermarket to come up
with a standalone ABS module that's
tunable I think it's such the missing
link there's so many missing links as
bitching to you earlier the automotive
aftermarket quite frankly my dear is an
absolute whole house in my opinion
there's just so much garbage on the
market and and it's like where's the
quality and the markets they're like I
think consumers are ready for elevated
consideration and execution but they're
surely there's some companies that are
making good so the minority it's
pathetic 10% not even really oh yeah
good lord but I'm a picky bitch you are
so I wouldn't say that word I might I
might do you see a lot of words but you
wouldn't say the B word I would I say
the bitch word all the time but about
you calling you a picky bitch it seems
like it seems like I would say
picky fellow all right yeah I'll take
either one clever bitch you're a clever
bitch
don't say that maybe but your um your
whole place like every time I go there I
feel like like I like I want to give
myself time like if my appointment is at
12:30 I'll show up at 12:00 just start
wandering around so what do you got
what's going on here man what are you
doing Willy Wonka's exactly such odd
diversity in there right now Angie
notice in the DNR and the derelict
remember former section the range of
projects the diversity of those
platforms right now did you see the 70
Ford yellow and cream shortbed no I did
not I didn't see that it's so stupid
sexy I did see that blazer that
someone's selling yeah that's one of
your older projects yeah I never drove
it I remember you were building two of
them one it was more modern-looking
correct kind of more over engineered or
not more over engineer but more
engineered and then this one which is
more of really looks like an older yeah
and it has a same mechanical engineering
integrated in it but it was a much
different style more of what I call my
old-school style where all my mods like
even the badging on it where it says
icon was CNC didn't stainless in the
original typeface that blazer was
written in so if you don't know you
don't know and it's like super under the
radar mellow colors yeah really good
leathers it's a blue yeah I love that
it's a 60s Fiat blue so the guy just
never drove it no it drives me crazy I
hate that I love that you drive my car
I Drive the shit out of it people take
it back and had like 400 more miles on
it than when I delivered I'm like yeah
that's going on oh it was too nice I was
afraid to drive it on my own
come on I Drive that Bronco everywhere
everywhere and every time I Drive it
people like what in the fuck is that mmm
like yeah that's exactly see yeah yeah
it's it's such a mechanical thing when
you drive that car it's what I love
about it like sometimes if I don't drive
it for a week or two I kind of forget
I'm gonna get in it's like everything is
like you feel everything it's like
there's a thing about modern cars like I
really do love my Tesla it's it the way
I describe it it makes other cars seem
stupid like they're stupid like this is
how car
to drive like you hit the gas it's
almost telepathic it just goes somewhere
just moves it's in the gigantic
navigation screen everything about is
amazing I was supposed to be in Detroit
right now for the Bronco launch which
they lay out but the difference between
that and say the Broncos you don't feel
it like if the Bronco it's a manual
transmission and you literally feel
every gear it's there's all these moving
parts that you kind of sync up with so
there's all this sensation that's going
into your brain through your hands
visceral connection of man and machine
and I think there's a place for both
right but I think more and more as the
world turns to autonomous vehicles
rideshare infrastructure community
development is even starting to go a
different direction I used to be
concerned about that in regards to the
future of our company but now I realize
like that's great like because the more
that happens the more there's gonna be
plenty of people who for the weekend
further whatever like demand a manual
tranny and a visceral man-machine
relationship it feels different it feels
different when you drive them there's a
sweet spot somewhere I have a 2005 e46
m3 and I got it online off this dude it
was only 15,000 original miles
and that seems to me to be the sweet
spot this is not the fastest car in the
world and it's got a dine-in
supercharger on it it's it doesn't
handle the best in the world but man is
it out it's like there's something about
that car like when you're driving it
makes you smile if there's something
about the weight it steers the way you
feel the hydraulic steering not electric
like the new the new m3 is almost
becoming there's like too many nannies
it's it's too technical in a manner that
makes the stats improved but not the
connection to the driver feel more
dynamic yeah it's like I've got a 96 993
twin-turbo and that to me is one of the
most perfectly engineered vehicles that
was designed by a core group of people
who had a singular focus on what its
purpose was and what it should do what
it should have VOC and what it shouldn't
damn the same one he had before
what that thing yeah was mine okay yeah
I love that car it's a great car I
remember the cover of was motor trying
to rodent tracked said sell your soul
and buy this car when it came out when
when it came out it was like you know
early 90s was when I first came to
California there was no way I was ever
gonna be able to afford my own I
remember looked at if I have the poster
as a kid when you see that when you see
a car like that you start thinking like
how much does that cost how much do I
make how long do I have to save what do
I have to do what if I work twice as
much history make this happen
remember how's it possible I had the
vector poster I had the 993 turbo I had
the Countach to fetoscope oh and at a
550 Maranello poster for a little while
as I approached I just turned 50 last
week like my late 40s I started like
having to knock at that list like okay
we're waiting for right bought a 550 it
sucked the Maranello should have been
left to the rosy eyes of memory the
bucket is shit I get so annoyed at that
car can't afford the vector missed my
chance to afford a pet escapo but I've
been watching Farrow just piss money and
it is constantly I had that BMW M car
the wedge you won the original wedge
what the fuck was that call him one I
believe M 1 M er that's right yeah I
like the original BMW supercar I had one
of those my wall when I first came out
to California in the 80s I remember and
I think it was Newport or Manhattan
Beach there's like ex BMW dealership
looking space but it was an independent
BMW dealership and service center and
they had one in the factory tricolor
livery and they had it for sale and I
remember begging my mom to pull over in
our crappy dodge areas rental car and
going in and asking and it was for sale
it was like 11 grand and the guy was
like hoping and begging I was serious
because they couldn't give them a way
back look at that there's so nifty god I
love that thing and the wheels are so I
had a red one on my wall
I remember thanking God only one day
that's it that's the fucking car Jamie
that the poster and probably it's hard
to remember but it looks exactly like
one of my photographers does a trick and
now I've been
using it so you'll get that mirrored
effect if you take an iPhone that's off
and put it right under the lens and hold
it up and angle it just right that's
suitable interesting again that's a
beautiful car and back in the day like
what was that then had to be like early
eighties right what year was that oh
yeah I was late seventies I believe was
it yeah for luck that makes sense
because I was in high school first year
high school is 81 so that that's when I
had it on my wall a key member his real
name but on any mister enthusiast I
don't know he's a designer and a really
interesting cat
he has like Lancia Delta he had a straw
toes for a couple years like he's into
like all the weird shit and I think he
still owns one but he rocked one of
those before anyone was talking about
him and like had it forever drove the
piss out of I love those cars
I have zero desire to own one now and I
have zero desire to own anything old
that hasn't been redone yeah I don't
like there is mr. enthusiast oh there
you go that's a beautiful car he's so
funny - cos like as you know I'm a big
watch geek and he's like the Antichrist
and who watch culture because he's all
about courts like vintage courts so like
for a short time Patek made quartz
watches mm-hmm and like everyone shuns
them but now like they're immensely
collectible why why does everybody hate
quartz because they just want everything
to be mechanical to me that's why I
won't touch a quartz watch what about a
Seiko where they combine the two of them
they use them the courts don't even
respond she's one of my favorite of the
weirdos around watch
yeah not my design this is a resin
service on says the brand
these are super trippy but like they
just came out with a SmartWatch where
like when you're on the plane and you're
in a new time zone and you land it'll
reset itself like what I have a thumb
and an index finger that worked pretty
fucking good I can set my own watch how
does it do that oh it's a mechanical
quartz combination oh wow but these are
super tricky because the entire well
rotates as it tells the time what yeah
that's crazy super trippy bran really
interesting guys in their oil filled and
all sorts of neat
nifty Ness
and talk about an industry in a shitshow
even before this sad virus situation
watch luxury watch worlds is this is
crazy
leading yea is it why is that why is the
luxury watch world bleeding
um I think Smart Watch put a bigger ding
on it than they thought it would and
they negated it an original anko's no
lights no cameras yeah and exactly
arrogant said we're doing just fine and
then like now they say there's so many
manufacturing options for low volume
watches that the only growth segments
and I read the big LVMH like annual
report and the like was it 800 to 1600
dollars segment of watches pump and
killing growing like crazy
otherwise it's up it's like 20 grand and
more independent watch brands are
killing it and everyone in between is
like hemorrhaging money really that's
interesting there's this new company I'm
bummed because when I went to the Geneva
show was gonna go meet with him but
David Rutten watches that are doing
watches that are cnc'd out of a solid
chunk of meteorite and like not like is
some bullshit EDM meteorite dial and
nineties Daytona the entire watch case
the crown and everything is meteorite
Jesus Christ how many meteorites are
there like how there's actually a shit
meteorites really yeah there's different
grades of them and stuff and it depends
on the metallurgic content if it can be
machine and they eat machines left and
right wow look at that
funky right how weird looking that's
made out of a meteorite yeah damnit you
can see how they're fracturing it and
his price points pretty much he's doing
like a pre-launch and he hasn't launched
yet they just started doing deliveries
like a week ago and like I'd saved up my
little side monopoly cash from selling
off used parts and leather stuff and I
was like ready to pull the trigger and I
already had a meeting and lunch date set
up with those cats and I'm like oh and
what happened
well the my trip got canceled does the
Geneva show got canceled but anyway the
point of the story is guys like this
Andres on sin
Lorraine Frey and all these different
Mosers another great brand if they have
a very unique aesthetic and philosophy
they're killing right but it's the
traditional big luxury bling-bling yo
look at me you know those guys are just
dying on the vine because I think more
and more people aren't buying into what
is considered luxury in a conventional
sense mm-hmm before more story well you
mean that also speaks to like what the
kind of stuff that you do I mean people
like things that are crafted by artisans
yeah you know I love that meat you're
seeing that revival right in the last
years it's just growing and growing and
growing and so I feel like as the world
becomes more digital and people become
more disconnected with each other
there's something about like when I
Drive your Bronco first of all I really
like you so I love the fact that I'm
driving your truck and then too I feel
like it's a piece of art yeah I feel
like I look you Savard highly
functioning scold I smile when I'm in it
so it makes me feel different when I'm
in my Teslin like this is a bad ask
motherfucking piece of invention but
you're still in your own head it's a
piece of plastic it's there's you know
it's plastic and glass and metal and
it's beautiful it's amazing it's
spectacular innovative but it it will
never be art are you in it what do you
have an ass I have that yeah the p100 d
yeah it's a sin about C no don't why the
noise coming out of that Third Point
shoulder seat belt retractor is so
unacceptable wear modern clothes
standards like literally the shit's
coming up through the plastic wheel well
in like a noise and a cold breeze is
hitting your outboard ear and I'm like
okay breathe how did this shit happen if
there's a damn draft that comes up
through there and you're hearing road
noise through its you're hearing road
noise through the seat belt through the
cavity the horror which really yeah the
retractors pull sits and air gets in
there
next time you're too stoned to drive I
said in the backseat let mama drive and
report back semantics it's that annoying
it for guys like us dare I go out on
lemons
us yes it'll annoy the piss outta hmm
interesting that Carson you didn't have
a call-in number when Elon was here I
would have chewed his ass about them
what did that one thing me you know who
the fuck is this happened years ago I
developed a concept that I called the
Helios I don't know if you ever saw that
so I love like design challenges I like
framing things right so I was like all
right let's do a revisionist history
approach to car design so what if
electric cars had remained predominant
in the late 1800s Early 1900s what if we
had taken inspiration from aircraft
design a couple decades prior to when
the industry actually did and then what
if after he did the experimental plane
that age - I think it was what if Howard
Hughes its satin down and like he
couldn't get that last starlet to go out
with him right before he lost his mind
completely what if he Buckminster Fuller
and Gordon burek sat down and did a
napkin sketch after too many martinis
what would that car look like so that
was my stupid pile of questions around
which I framed my design and I designed
it to work on the at the time a p85
platform and basically I received a copy
of a letter that's titled like peanut
butter and chocolate that was written by
Ilan score engineering team begging him
to allow them to support me to do the
build and like since day one like my
launch was I don't need your money I'll
go to the dealership I'll buy the damn
car I need y'all's back in support on
the software because there's super
shitty about any repurposed er I'm sure
probably s Liz and Eli never addressed
it as that gentleman right there with
the glasses the larger bobble head
that's really rich we just did a
speaking panel together in Texas
recently that's his major beef with
Tesla yeah he's bought a couple of them
in peace yeah together a cock-block him
yeah they cock-block him left and right
let him supercharged but but six about
in the last two or three quarters there
have been
major gains think honestly I think due
to rich and due to the community that
rose up around him that shit's been
hacked now oh yeah now people can
open-source hack the can data chain and
people are repurposing Tesla components
like I use Tesla batteries but I haven't
been using their motors or planetaries
or anything else because again what do I
tell my client when the client needs an
update or a part you go to the ruler
it's like what's your VIN but yeah like
stealthy V in fact has this new setup
that they just started marketing where
you literally take that IRS apart where
the electric motor is built in there's a
little access door you pull out a little
circuit board you put in another one and
voila
is there a setup like crate engines
where you know or do you envision a
setup where because you know you know
that the new Hummer is now going to be
an electric vehicle which is really
interesting yeah and there's going to be
a bunch of other electric vehicles that
are coming out from Volkswagen that are
really cheap and a bunch of different
companies are jumping in do you envision
there being some sort of a crate engine
option for people that want to I do I do
and I think there should be now proof in
the pudding to this point is that
everyone's focusing on the
do-it-yourself market therefore also on
the cheapest possible equation which
leaves a lot of in my opinion a lot of
safety issues completely unaddressed and
they can get downright nutty so the
other issue is they're all for ease of
installation and conversion everyone's
thinking about doing kits that literally
re a spud plate in a short shaft to go
where the engine used to be put an
electric motor to a bellhousing adapter
to the stock transmission which is
stupid because electric car is going
through manual transmissions there's a
lot of scavenging of energy it's bad
enough to go through a ring and pinion
doing a right angle gear displacement of
power you lose so much efficiency and
the best v's in my opinion our
transmission list or go through
planetary said you know for gear
reduction like that the Merc is the to
my knowledge the first sort of retrofit
Evi
that you know I being the goober that I
am like I was like okay we've done a
couple Eevee builds but if we're gonna
keep doing them like I want to do a Mar
way like I want to I want more safety I
want more performance I want more range
I want dedicated thermal management
networks for the batteries that
controllers the motors and all that and
none of it existed how long did that
build take oh god four yeah just a
little bit over four years and that the
scale of technology shit's changing so
quickly in the Eevee space that as we
were building it suppliers of key
components came out with another
generation that's infinitely better than
the V 1 or V 3 already had so even
before we could finish that car we were
backing up and updating and updating and
updating which really if you put sort of
a marketeer hat on I'm so proud of the
value retention in my vehicles and I'm
proud of our foundation of taking
something that in essence a lot of
people would think is that the end of
its already usable life cycle and
upcycling it and breathing new life so
it's good to go for decades again but
now with Eevee stuff is moving so
quickly that am I like making iPhones
all the sudden so we're two years it's
totally worthless because the tech is
outdated that is the weird thing about
tech right is that the exponential
growth and improvement it just makes
yeah like no one wants an iPhone one
right they're useless so look at you
know internal combustion engine
development cycles what I put in today
is still relevant in a decade mmm but
with with electric it's a whole new
space to consider
so a EEM who's like well-known in racing
an aftermarket for engine management
electronics they just at PRI and it's
SEMA made a fair bit of noise about
coming out with a full array of evey
retrofit conversion system so these seem
to be the first ones entering the field
that are going to offer a comprehensive
suite of products and solutions but then
again being that it's part of this
industry you know I go girl the dudes at
their tradeshow booth and they're like
well it's something we're working on you
know does all these press releases and
all that on my paper well tell me some
shit they can't sell to you I think I
trust it will come out when you see Elon
coming out with like that new roadster
is gonna have a 600 miles - that is when
things get really interesting in
Volkswagen claimed with that vehicle
that you noted earlier that they were
going to make the platform shareable and
they were gonna make it available to
many different manufacturers large and
small but I've heard stories like that
over the years from you name it from
Faraday was claiming the same thing and
so much of its bullshit because now it's
it's like I don't want to say vaporware
but it's it's so much of that like VC
money don't worry we'll be profitable
one day and we're worth a billion
multiple of nothing today so buy in and
then it's like so many of these evie
startups and retrofit companies come to
the scene looking for that elusive FedEx
fleet contract that everyone thinks is
going to be easy to get and none of them
get it and then they all go belly-up
you know so I just think we're at that
point in history where not only is the
tech moving forward so quickly and not
only that but the likes of predominantly
only due to Tesla it's proven the
viability in the market now there's
purists and traditionalists and
everyone's starting to poke at it and I
see exponential more interest so I think
you know for the next five years or so
it's gonna be a bit tumultuous but I
definitely think it's the future of hot
rodding III imagine within five years I
imagine probably half of my client
builds will be electric wow that's a big
that's a big statement what I'm totally
pulling out of yeah but that's the vibe
that I get
have you seen there's a 68 Porsche 911
that has a Tesla engine in it yeah is
that the one evey west
I don't know who build I'm like just
scamming through scanning through in
Instagram the other day and I saw it
a green 68 that's that's very
interesting when they do stuff like that
to old cars but
and there's so many guys springing up
out of the woodwork yeah like nationwide
to various levels of price expectation
range expectation etc but I think that's
a really it's a lovely community too
I've noticed it's much more open than
the conventional automotive community is
about sharing information and suppliers
and knowledge and helping one another
and it's it's there's a really nice
camaraderie within that community
there's like movement motors and
Austin's doing really nice retrofits and
oh yeah evie West has been around
forever there were really the
granddaddy's on the scene and yes no
odors in Austin mm-hmm they're the ones
that did that Mustang I think they've
done is staying they just finished doing
a 2002 BMW they did a early GTV Alfa
they've done all sorts of different like
pretty cool diverse range of platforms
and then of course Z electric down in
Orange County that started out doing
just the bugs now the bugs and the buses
and now 911s and it's like there's such
a large and welcoming kind cool
community of people in that space now
when you charge a Tesla it's easy you
know you look for the Tesla
superchargers they're all over the place
you press a button on your screen and it
shows you where they are it'll navigate
you to them when you try to get one of
those you can't charge a regular car to
Tesla super station Ken you know and
there's different so there's this
standard I forget the inaccurate color
rich the J blah blah blah connector but
there's a standard municipal connector
and then there's also the new fast
charge network but it depends on where
you live but for example around here
it's a joke they're everywhere so like I
have an app when I'm driving that 49
Merc and you know I was speaking at
barrett-jackson and had it there in town
for a while I was visiting and there you
network the apps and you find it but we
made that one supercharger compatible
because the clients going to install one
in his house and bunk the system
otherwise you try and go to a public
Tesla charger it has to do a handshake
and it says no you may not charge here
so you can have it supercharger
compatible for like I have one in the
wall back there for my car so it would
work with that yes that's my
understanding but
not in public in installation those have
to go through a whole handshake protocol
yeah it's interesting they decided to do
it that way well it's fun we put one
behind the front license plate so we did
one of those old-school articulating
plates like remember on the gals behind
the plate so that has the one interface
connector and then the other one I
machine this unnecessarily groovy sort
of gas cap under the original fuel door
on the merc and then that's for the
other style charger so do
oh so you could charge it with different
ones of the superchargers one pending on
to increase the versatility of it you
had a supercharged of fast charge
compatibility and then you had the more
widely distributed municipal format
charger and then there's just two
different pigtail adapters you can go
either way with it
do you anticipate upping the range on
that thing do you think that someday
sure swap the batteries out and
definitely I think the reality is an EEV
project I build I have to not only do I
anticipate but like I've lost many
clients because I'll be super blunt
about making managing their expectations
that look you're gonna spend a lot of
money to have me do this and trust I
will geek out and do the best of the
state-of-the-art that is available to us
but in a year that might all be garbage
yeah so you have to understand either
you're cool with this moment in time and
the range and the performance it is what
it is or you're a tech geek like most
guys that are engaging in that and
you're gonna be hemorrhaging money then
coming back every couple of years for us
to upgrade and evolve as the sciences
evolve oh you know we build on the sub
modular even like your Broncos sub
module we built so your powertrain the
electrical network for your powertrain
goes to a two single Deutsche Tec 26 pin
connectors aerospace connectors so one
day when that powertrain is no longer
relevant but your truck still has good
platform value unplug that
yank it out and put in the hydrogen or
the micro capacitor or whatever the
hell's working at the time remember some
balloon boxes no really what is it
that's been thinking about them lately I
remember seeing on 60 minutes years ago
and I think Google headquarters was
powered by one there were these funky
little
black boxes that had some chemical
process of creating energy and they were
like early on massive news promising
tech and they're super groovy little
simple boxes and they originally did it
for like campuses and military like
large large installations for you know
multiple complexes and stuff how they
work then they were also making them for
automotive and they had a prototype I
was so excited
hi there I don't remember it's been
years but it was some sort of I think it
was a ionic transfer process that went
through a series of elements within the
shielded box to create the energy but
they were like self-sustaining and super
groovy it's called a Bloom Box anything
literally is just a big black box
doesn't what's in there
and I don't know what happened with him
they went belly-up errs yeah so that 60
minutes so that was powering Google at
one point those things and what's inside
and I think Stanford was getting into it
I don't know major mental flashback for
me even that I'm remembering it it's
just one of those things that seemed so
promising that then went bye-bye same
with like toroidal engines there was a
great engineer up and load I that was
revisiting toroidal x' and he had a he
had a Ford Focus that would do is like
his daughter's old car with a blown up
motor he had his own toroidal motor that
he had developed that could run from the
energy in the charged particles in the
air what this thing did like 15 miles an
hour on a flat test track running on air
charged particles in the air yes
technically charged particles as the
technology improved that 15 miles an
hour could be a real speed yeah Wow yeah
and in that scene guy I saw him once at
a trade show and I was exhibiting at the
show as well says there on setup day as
bored out of my gourd we were I was
already set up on the Ford booth so just
walking around sort of sniffing around
and see this trippy scientist guy in his
lab coat and this shitty little booth it
was like you know six by ten foot booth
and he
a show where people have like 200 by
60-foot boom he's got this odd little
toroidal thing and then a bigger
toroidal thing and literally like a
chalkboard it's like dude what's going
on so I start talking about he starts
explaining the technology and what he
was doing and like the smaller went at
300 foot-pounds of torque the larger one
had two thousand and he was looking to
develop it for rail cars for semis for
cars like an on and on and on he's like
yeah the biggest problem is stopping it
once it gets going because the toroidal
structure meant that the compression
cycle from you know 12 to 2 of that
first cylinder was such that when the
combustion occurred and it propelled the
next piston into the next combustion
cycle and kept going so getting that
power out of a central crank was a
challenge and then how to stop the damn
thing was like the bigger challenge but
they'd run on like horse piss ionic
charge particles diesel gas like didn't
even need spark plugs so I'm like blown
away by this I go back the next day
where do you go
booth gone empty done and I had the
guy's info I try to reach out to him
website go on the website I had looked
at done night before gone got gobbled up
five years later I see him again at
another trade show with another kick-ass
design and man was he a bitter man he's
like yeah never again because they
bought it and they shelved it I'm never
selling anything again fuck them
I'm licensing to specific channels of
applications and that's it his new
product so what do you think happen if
you're a conspiracy theorist do you
think someone bought him out and just oh
I'm not I'm a small independent business
owner real realist in that hell yes
someone didn't like that and they
shelved that shit so they bought it and
then just shelled it yep so his next
product did that yeah I don't know and
he was very cagey about it then he had
another product where you would replace
the alternator in your car with a
generator and you had a small battery in
the vehicle right so this is a retrofit
system the retail model was brilliant
because you'd have like a pretty cheesy
and expensive
three axes mil a shit-ton and CAD files
and one product on the shelf so in a
lightweight car it was like an electric
super charger so you'd replace your
alternator and it had a toothed cog and
for the pulley and then your crank
pulley would add a toothed cog to it and
then toothed belt so the idea was it
would assist the internal combustion
engine through its compression cycle it
wouldn't it get the parasitic load of
all the Fiat all the front engine
accessory drive mounted things you know
your alternator a small pump or whatever
by pushing the engine through the cycle
with the captured electrical energy from
the deceleration whoa and then in bigger
cars it gave you like past assists and
range increase in did great things for
mpg and then the story I got on that one
was BMW put him under a big contract for
it to license it and use it and then the
guy disappeared off the face planet
again Jesus Christ this guy shit happens
do you remember there was a video that
was circulating many years ago about a
guy who created a car to run on air mmm
no excuse me water created a car that
runs on water and then this car that ran
on water I mean he apparently had a
viable engine and it was really working
and then he he had a heart attack and as
he was dying he was saying they killed
me they killed me and then he died
nobody heard from the water engine again
but uh Columbus he's from Columbus to
see that shit happens and I don't even
like the term conspiracy theory because
I think that's something created by the
machine to negate things that are
disruptive and innovative so we can put
him in a little box and call it a
conspiracy theory or whatever and yes
therefore it never happened well anyone
who doesn't believe in conspiracy
theories I say look at Jeffrey Epstein
it's real clear Meyer said that is an
invention could do what physicists say
is impossible turn water into hydrogen
fuel efficiently enough to drive his
dune buggy cross-country on 20 gallons
straight from the tap he took a sip of
cranberry juice then he grabbed his neck
bolted out the door dropped to his knees
and vomited violently
I ran outside and asked him what's wrong
this brother Stefan Meyer recalled he
said they poisoned me
that was his dying declaration that's
fucked up that's fucked up
I don't know if it's true he might have
been nuts or both or both you know
that's another thing like we'd like to
just call people nuts and write them off
some of the greatest innovators you know
throughout the history of mankind have
been a little off the rocker and Nikola
Tesla was in love with illusion
yeah he's in love with the latest story
yeah his final days well there's a story
that I read that I've tried I've tried
to substantiate that apparently he was
he was so frustrated by sexual desires
and a love affair that he had and the
distraction that it presented that he in
quotes destroyed his sexuality I do not
know what that means you know I gotta
say man I'm kind of tired of my penis
still ruling my brain you know at 50
it's like I wouldn't mind just like
enough already like no you know I get it
you know I mean I like turn it on turn
it off as needed and when I'm reading I
don't want to be walking around like
maybe have a hip switch it's like
something you could just oh like set it
aside and become a eunuch for a little
bit please make it useful make it like a
GoPro mount or something yeah let's see
what you're saying there's there's a lot
of innovation that does sort of get
swept aside that you wonder like there's
a documentary who killed the electric
car yeah Kevin really interesting cat
the guy who produced and developed
yeah lovely guy yeah I don't know who he
is but that is another example of you
know there was an innovation that was a
little bit ahead of its time and the
powers that be were like fuck you yeah
we're not ready for it yeah and that
goes way back I mean you know this ever
heard of the the Selden patent very
interesting notes of American
transportation history this prick named
Selden was one of the richest people in
the country because he was like one of
your early patent trolls who like sat
back one day one you know we got these
horse carriages and we got these new
motor things and you know at some point
there could be a horseless care
so he like literally did like a chicken
scratch bullshit drawing and filed it
and got awarded the patent so Henry Ford
in his first two companies as well as
the Dodge Brothers all the early
pioneers in the transportation sector in
the US had to pay this prick a massive
royalty to even produce the vehicle and
it was Henry when he read when he after
he went down and under and he goes
reborn and came back out with Ford Motor
Company the second time that he said you
know what fuck him fuck that I'm not
paying this shit and it was like eight
years of court battles to overrule it
and the National automotive dealers
Association originally didn't want any
trouble and everyone was paying and
Henry was the one who had the gall and
the balls to say no no we're you should
not pay this prick and they finally got
it kicked out but they say that hindered
innovation and transportation for a good
decade Wow no I didn't know about that
and it was only the electric starter the
Magneto's started that Henry Ford
integrated into his cars that really
made the massive shift away from
predominance of electric cars to
internal combustion so when you flash
forward and you look at mr. Payne's film
who killed the electric car and you look
at Firestone and who was it
Pacific oil but was oil company a tire
company and they created that bus
company and then they did all the
lobbying to privatize municipal
transport so that then they could slowly
buy them all up and you know California
had an incredibly successful electric
trolley system through the West Side it
was brilliant as pioneering was they had
everyone they're the ones that ended up
stacked in the desert some of that
footage in the film yeah because they
they're not gonna sell tires or oil fish
it goes down so let's tank it yeah they
do that yeah they will buy a company
that's doing amazing innovation yeah and
they just put it on the shelf do you
remember that early Ford cars the the
early Ford cars were made with hemp all
of his fenders and everything were made
with happening is a video of him taking
a hammer and bang a sledge and banging
it off the fenders and it shows you the
insane durability that hemp fibers have
of yours
yeah but he never that never made it
into production right I think that was a
wartime shortage R&D effort same thing
with stainless you ever seen any of the
prototype a couple of them still exist
but yeah so Ford I think it was the 37
to tour it was a 61 maybe t-bird was the
newest and there was a third one that
the entire bodies made out of stainless
and there's so GM did one during World
War two
during the metal shortage time entire
plexiglas Buick sedan in it sold an
auction recently and I Plexiglas
slightly so if I can tempted yeah so the
entire body is clear like you see
through the doors
it is so badass and it sold for what
didn't seem like an absurd it was like
180 200 grand Wow
so actually can you google that image
it's a plexiglass prototype Buick I
think it was hopefully we'll find it
super super nifty Wow
I know that was the company Lotus lotus
developed a hemp fiber car they did like
an anniversary one of their what is it
st jour whatever the fuck it is there it
is to the left
Wow one more over yeah look at that
that's insane like are you kidding me
those were fucking cool that's crazy no
Caen apparently it cracked and proved
not to be viable so never made a pass
shit just as like a sculpture to have
you in your man cave things so bad yeah
really cool like there's all the as that
safety bracing on the door structural
bracing on the doors I also for a while
like I wanted to do there was a Dow
Corning and somebody else there was a
big consortium that was doing a bio
derivative molded plastic concepts so
like four years City trash cans and
stuff and the durability and the life
cycles and everything were epic and I
was thinking for all like how
badass would it be invest all the money
in the platform of the vehicular
engineering and then make the body
literally by design almost disposable so
when it's at the end of its lifecycle it
literally could turn into mulch and go
on the ground totally neutral right or
more interestingly more liberating it
for a consumer and a designer like let's
say that same platform you had you could
have like a dune buggy style like okay
I'm gonna take it out to the desert and
we're gonna go elk hunting or whatever
the hell you're gonna do that weekend
right anyone like a buggy Truckee style
or you know we're doing construction at
the house and we're gonna use it for you
know hauling soil or whatever so you
could have like modular bodies and
different applications used on the same
platform but all bio derivative
materials I think that'd be super cool
well I've always wondered why someone
didn't but besides Lotus didn't make
another hemp bodied car because you know
Corvette still uses Plexiglas or
fiberglass for all their cars but hemp
is far superior it is me and you it's
another one of those things like why
isn't yeah I'm moving forward who does
someone make maybe you should do it
maybe we should make like a 69 Corvette
but make all the panels redo them in
hemp fiber hate to say it but you're
going up against the petrochemical
industry and I do not want to be that
for you sure I mean all the chemical
interest in plastics you would if you're
just rebuilding something do you really
think that it would be that big of a
deal like they would come after you if
like if you took all the body panels off
and by the way it would probably so much
stronger if you watch the video of see
we can find that video of Henry Ford
banging the hammer off of reading about
it right now it might not have been what
was like he lied he didn't live the
video that putting out the video live I
guess is what this article says what
does it say
angry historian wrote a big blog about
it dug through it that seems to be a
prototype as he was saying and it was
probably plastic it might have been some
hemp in there but it wasn't he some fine
there maybe it wasn't even 50% him how
does he know that he did begging with
all that's all the places that this that
the information came from forties and
all the places that they were talking
about making angry historians pretty
balls out serious Wednesday
he does his homework interesting I had a
friend who had a stalk of him I you know
one of those the the base of a hemp tree
on his desk and he's like picked that up
and I picked it up and I guess it looks
like like a piece of oak like it looks
like it looks like a real eye can we
feel it it's really hard but it's really
light it's the weirdest plant like if I
don't have you ever held a piece of hemp
hemp stalk it's like an alien plant it
doesn't seem to make any sense yeah and
its properties and its structure is so
unique and there's so many benefits to
it for sure yeah I would think I mean
see if you find that Lotus the hemp
Lotus they had it where the front stripe
down the center was clear coat so you
could see the actual hemp fiber in the
in the Lotus but no one's ever done
anything they still make Corvettes out
of plastic I'm still making them out of
fiberglass I would think that that would
be like a real straightforward approach
especially now that hemp is legalized
and you can grow it in the United States
and in most states
I think it's federally illegal yeah I
you know I I for my leather goods like
this jacket is all hemp thread really
super strong it's better than anything
so that stripe down the middle is all
the clear coat natural hemp fiber mmm so
that whole car is made out of hemp what
the hell's load is doing these days like
they keep coming out with all these
concepts and prototypes but then nothing
ever seems to be actually happening or
coming out I don't know they had that
little car you know I guess it's that
one is that the one the really little
one that they had and at least I drove
it one day I was like what will you have
a fucking pair of Chipmunks running the
the engine with a flick of one of those
hamster wheels but then even like last
year at the quail we were up there
showing a car they debuted a concept
that was lovely was kick-ass
but from what I heard what's his name
Behar they're making such a disgusting
amount of money and licensing like
keychains and bullshit that like the
core even the engineering Tier one
engineering aspect of Lotus and then the
production they're like fuck that that's
complicated wait a minute they make
their money off keychains yeah from what
I
been told that's what's kept Lotus in
business over the last 10 years
Lotus keygens kid just merged just
whatever watches mercs bags whatever
shit that anyone wants to put the Lotus
name on we're selling licenses left and
right but they're not selling cars I
don't think they have anything in
production right that's so weird and
they've shown like more concepts than
multinational car companies well I know
Matt Farah reviewed that rear engine or
the mid-engine one that they have and
said it was awesome beautiful car but
you don't see them you never see them I
think they're one of those interesting
companies that like kind of like a
Malcolm Bricklin situation of like just
was that dude Malcolm Bricklin so one of
the best car books ever that John you
know Johnny Lee Berman right yes dear
friend Johnny had recommended it's
called the worst car ever built and it's
the story of the Hugo so it's a fast
read it is absolutely hysterical the
shenanigans and shitshow around that car
and behind all of it was Malcolm
Bricklin who's like the PT Barnum of the
automotive industry the amount of
stories and stuff this guy is lived
through and caused and gotten away with
is insane but like Hugo their cars were
like late they were gonna debut at the
LA Auto Show and they realize like oh
shit
we don't have booth models or anything
what are we gonna do so Malcolm Bricklin
in the story goes that he drove around
downtown LA and just where are the
prostitutes where did the whores hang
out around here went over and like hired
a bunch of the girls - they're like
could you put on something a little more
tame and like be here at this time for
these days just like run this show can
be their booth models and rep the cars
but like the cars is they came out of
the container had disassembled
themselves and transit like just on and
on and on
shenanigans is hysterical but that book
is so fucking funny I've never heard of
that before that's interesting yeah I
would think that for a guy like you
who's building cars away you're building
them well the real challenge would be
staff no I think that would be the real
challenge is finding people that
understand what
finding fellow artisans that also
understand how to build cars to really
get what you're doing yep
that and I love the state of California
but they do not want me here how so
they don't want me in business they
don't want anyone in California making
anything except maybe solar assisted
bicycles they did the business climate
in the state of California and the
associated HR costs and insurance and
workman's comp and liabilities like
every couple weeks there's another
absurd ruling that we get an update on
that like wait what it's like you mean
to tell me if I catch a dude smoking
crack while on the clock stealing my
inventory I can't fire his ass on the
spot nope what oh yeah now if you do you
have to give him a week's pay at the
time of letting him go and you can't
make him sign anything that indemnifies
nor protects you you have to put him on
probation and offer therapy and
resources no stealing merchandise and
smoking crack
like literally the most vagrant
disrespect of safety of policy of
company goods like it has gotten so bad
and like we just got a letter from the
from the building inspector came by and
he's like yeah you know those those
automotive lifts in your building like
yeah it goes yeah you have 30 days to
remove all those what thank you that was
pretty much my response repaid them
because yeah you're not so in for
automotive I'm like you see this plaque
on the wall the congressman councilman
and the mayor you see this picture of me
and the mayor when he did the
ribbon-cutting here's the email record
showing the mayor's aide personally and
delivered me all my occupancy permits
because yeah not my problem I'm like
what about the last nine years of
inspectors coming in all the time saying
you guys have the cleanest most
professional aboveboard shop kick-ass
well done thank you so much for making
my life good it goes the other idiots
I'm the new inspector so the new
inspector says you're not licensed
I'm not zoned appropriately to be in
business where I met despite having
permits and everything for it did they
change the zoning
I don't know what the hell happened
other than this new guy seems to be a
prick and wanting to show his value
what's his name mm-hmm
I actually don't remember but I
literally at every turn it's killing me
and like I have a piece of shit I think
at this point to the amount of costs
related per employee should be going to
my employees not to insurance companies
and all this bullshit that gets tagged
on top it's like for every dollar you
pay someone now there's another thirty
two cents that should be going to them
that's showing disdain they want you to
do how do they expect you to work in
these cars
oh I this is something you can fight or
you gonna have I had to lawyer up and
we're fighting it but I mean literally I
honestly think they'd rather have a
commercial weed facility in that
building kicking out a hell of a lot
more tax revenue than us really yeah do
you think that's what they're doing yes
so you really think they're trying to
make it challenging for you to do
business so that you quit yes and just
about any small business owner I know in
the state of California that challenges
we're facing or getting to the point of
making us wonder about our own intellect
for staying in this state I don't know I
don't want to go anywhere I don't want I
love it here so what would you do with
this if you lose this you know if it
gets the point that we have to oh you
mean this building situation yeah I'll
fight it or a move and I'll deal I've
been through this ship for so you find
someplace where you are zone just keep
partying on but I know I'm zone fine
where I'm at I'm just gonna have to you
know instead of running a business I
have to now become a lobbyist and you
know knock on doors and ring phones and
dig through my black book to find people
with the clout to get the city to go so
I'm just flexing like what is this I
think so and at first he seemed like he
chilled out when we went above him and
then everything was good and then a week
later bubbled back up again and we got
another notice so we're in the middle of
it right now but you went above his head
and you got approval verbal verbal yeah
and then in city I don't know what he's
talking about you're fine you're good to
go and then you go back again right now
it's a problem you said what in the fuck
that's crazy
but look at the end of the day the
reality is also I'm going against what
trade schools are telling young kids
going into the field what are they
telling kids they're telling kids that
here if you run this scan tool you'll be
you'll make 150 grand a year as a lead
tech at a BMW dealership what they're
not telling these kids while sucking all
their money out of them with crazy you
know student loans and stuff is yeah
that's like the kids in the street in
Brazil all wanting to grow up to be Pele
there's not that many Pele's so there's
plenty of dudes at that dealership that
are making minimum wage or there abouts
or dealing with the politics of flag
hours or whatever but what what I'm
having a hard time with is we charge
$100 an hour for our labor I can't just
keep charging more and more and more
it's level of what we do with projects
that can run thousands of hours per job
the math is it almost doesn't make sense
like I honestly have guys that I think
should be I should be paying them 70 80
90 100 grand a year to do what they do
because they're artists and they deserve
it the bullshit of running a business in
California all of the exponential costs
that are added on top they even D
incentivize overtime now if I give adieu
to overtime it ups his tax rate and they
take even more out of the overtime well
is whatever happened it like GDP and
employment and productivity and like
keeping everything rolling there d
incentivizing us even to offer our
employees more money with more hours
it's it's tragic and I've lost several
guys now that have gone to do jobs that
they hate but like I'd the Department of
Water and Power I've lost several
employees at DWP because they'll they
get a pension they get killer health
care they get 90 grand a year to pick
their nose and watch other people work
well sucks what is this is this a
democrat thing I think it might be the
uber green side of democratic because I
think though whatever little two-party
systems as shit shows it is anyway I
don't think it's about which party so
much is I think we've empowered
attorneys to such an extent that it's
it's downright sinful because it's
hindering industry it's Henry innovation
and there's just so many constrictions
because everyone has their hand out no
one's no one's self accountable but
everyone's liable so then you you know
then you need a policy for that and so
than that I mean we had a we had an
employee once suus he jumped in a
dumpster to stomp on everything to
compress it in the dumpster it started
moving across the of ramped parking lot
and he jumped out of it clipped his leg
on the way down and shattered his arm in
four spots well he sued me I was like
well it's not on your job description
did someone tell you to jump in the
dumpster and stomp on it no and then we
discovered the guy in brittle bones due
to chemical agent exposure in the
military but it's my problem
like what people what ever happened I'd
like be proud of what you do be
respected be well paid everyone's
content
everyone's like inspired and engaged and
I just feel like more and more there's
just so much noise and lawyers and
policies all this crap it's like we're
just here to like do something we love
and get rewarded and pay people I mean
I'm stoked that you know we support
directly 58 families plus all our
sublets and everything else but it's
it's hard to retain people when when
weak we know we can't pay them what
they're worth
in this business environment I have a
really hard time with the whole crack
thing catching someone stealing smoking
crack and you can't fire them that seems
so strange you have to give them a
week's worth of money yeah on this spot
on the spot so you have to cut him a
check this is getting so stupid that
seems that seems it's and you gotta
offer from therapy I mean but I tell you
man more and more Surf Shack with like
my own little garden out back in my
little leather studio and sell shit on
Instagram simplify life me my wife and
my dogs I know what you're saying my own
one bag arrived you know Jamie's Montana
anything dealing with cancer you know my
wife got diagnosed with cancer last year
and we've been in the throws of chemo
and dealing with that whole shit show
you want to talk about something that
puts
everything in a perspective yeah you
know we really made us stop and sit back
and go okay all right that doesn't
fucking matter like a lot of the
bullshit a lot of the noise in our
modern world does not matter doesn't
mean a fucking thing so that kind of
reinvigorated but also refresh my
perspective to remind myself is
someone's panties are in there not
because their icons been in storage for
six months they didn't plug it into the
tender and the battery's dead and they
want to call him yell at me about it I
think yeah like like give me your bank
and fill us in to your money back oh
well known as there's not what it okay
then why are we interfacing like this
you have a dead battery you haven't been
there for six months dude that's gonna
happen stick your back well that's why
the icon is a real easy way to remove
the battery post right and an integrated
tender if you click that box on the
fucking configurator yeah well there's a
lot of silly people out there for sure
but it's just weird when they're
empowered by the government well yeah
you know when you don't have a common
sense approach to knuckleheads you know
if you got a guy smoking crack and
stealing things you're not supposed to
reward that kind of behavior with a
week's paycheck and it's like the you
know the homeless challenge that we're
facing and you know when we try and
address that in my opinion when that's
addressed on a state level it's gonna
fucking fail because then you're going
to overburden that state even if they're
innovative and brilliant in their
solution then the whole country tilts to
that state and they all come a sliding
over yeah and then the one in Venice
that is like super nasty low occupancy
level because the homeless are like wait
a minute there's a curfew and there's
drug tests screw you I want to do
whatever I want I want to smoke what I
want to smoke and do it's like no Sojo
I'm running for office oh this is my
platform I'm announcing right here
Catalina Catalina kind of sucks have you
been there it's not the best place okay
so how about this move to the hall most
people to Catalina yes I want to live
there though no you go there you come
nothing but you go there
contribute to that social system mm-hmm
we'll give you you know seed money and
development free internet for all free
and you actually start producing
something of value to society and get
your shit together and come back home
then we'll send the ferry over we'll
bring you back to the prison for
homeless people yeah what do you think
how they gonna get food um airdrop oh no
crow your shit there's enough bison to
feed him for a couple it's not gonna
work all right
that's that idea so I'd also my other
platform would be you cannot evoke the
law in your defense in the process of
breaking the law like when your stories
are like friend of mine NFL player
called a dude breaking into his car like
he's in the gym and looking out the
window and sees like legs hanging out
the passenger window of his BMW is like
motherfucker he runs down there he
literally grabs a dude by the ankles and
Yanks him out of their car blows the
guy's jaw out knocks his teeth out on
and on and on
my friend ended up getting sued for that
and ended up liable on owing this prick
a bunch of money like really but he was
in the middle of breaking the law and
stealing the guy's property you should
not account for anything Texas they
don't give a fuck that was California
you should go to Texas yeah Austin's
looking better and better
Austin was pretty good I some buddies
with some shops in Austin and barbecue
from my friends at the barbecue have a
kick-ass barbecue people yeah it's a
great place in front of me if someone's
breaking your car you could just shoot
them sweet sign me up I mean I don't
think you should shoot them but yet you
could you know I'm not advocating
shooting people for breaking shit up in
the foot and then run over him what do
you feel better with that well I feel
like if you break into a former NFL
players BMW and he catches you you
should get your fuckin ass-kiss
yeah totally a big giant man I mean
that's that's how you learn how to come
in to not break into someone's Cooksey
that's going back to this lack of
accountability yes like well that's the
problem with Democrats that's the
problem with this country and then
there's a problem with particularly the
state the state is so progressive minded
and I'm a progressive and I'm a very
open-minded person but you can't remove
responsibility you can't remove the
consequences for actions you can't do
those things
can't give people participation trophies
and that's what you're doing yeah and I
mean this is that attitude that people
have by thinking they're being
open-minded and kind and nice you are
just enabling people to keep fucking up
their lives by not getting a word by
showing up they have no consequences and
you know you can't litter right so how
how come you can put a fucking tent
filled with shit and just Park it under
the overpass but if I throw a can of
Diet Coke out my window into that same
spot I will I will get a fine and I will
get arrested rightly so but why why can
this asshole park his fucking tent
filled cracked there how come you can
have cardboard boxes just scattered out
all over the place that you sleep on I
don't know what to tell that guy and how
to change his life once he's got a tent
once you camped out under the overpass
that you've there's a lot of things that
have gone wrong to get you to that
position but what I do know is you
shouldn't be allowed to have a fucking
tent you shouldn't be a lot of these
tent villages under our town members
lately in downtown yes I went to dinner
with the other night in Venice one of
the last times I'd go to dinner for the
next couple months I think in a
restaurant but when we went down there
there's a nice house like a beautiful
house in Venice across the street there
was 50 tents just filled with shit
broken bike parts and garbage and just
things piled up and you're like this is
the problem of being open-minded this is
the problem and this is why people like
when Rudy Giuliani cleaned up New York
City with this totalitarian approach
like the people that live in New York
City that that weren't homeless we're
like fuck yeah finally take these
homeless people off the street do this
fix that does it make it harder to be a
criminal make it more difficult you know
and the the downside of it a lot of
people got arrested that probably
shouldn't have a lot of people got
frisked there probably shouldn't have a
lot of people got harassed there
probably shouldn't have but on the plus
side you got to crack a few eggs if you
want to make an omelet and they cleaned
up New York City and they cleaned up the
homeless problem that they have there I
think that's like probably our most
vexing modern social challenge yes is
it's really health our health care
mental healthcare challenge the bottom
line is how did you get to that position
like there's there's a many
via federal negligence there's that the
you know the original problem when they
changed what what it constitutes to be
mentally incapacitated ministration yeah
yeah I mean they gave him a bus ticket
well that's what they're doing I believe
they send people over the country
everybody likes to do that they send
them to Palm Springs Gary get out what
the desert what am i doing I'm with you
though man like the restoration of
personal accountability like to me my
word is everything to me and I'll lose
my ass to honor my word if I told you
I'm gonna do something to whatever
extent I have to go I'm gonna do it
because my generation whatever my dad I
was raised where that meant everything
above all other things yeah but more and
more like corporations have no
conscience
and we've that's been encouraged more
and more and more right so people
there's a lack of accountability there
all the way through it if your kid even
shows up to school he gets a fucking
award like no we need to celebrate the
leaders the people that really are
pushing and going and let them reap the
benefits and gains of that and our
government should be protecting their
energy their efforts their investments
their intellectual property but I just
feel like it's almost like everyone
should everyone should get something and
it's like no that's not how it really
works like never how it works yeah it's
never been how it works and it can't be
how it works it's the whole reason why
it's difficult to get out of bed because
there's a reward for accomplishing that
it's difficult to show up at work but
do you think it's an exercise do you
think we could segment aspects of our
culture our society meaning do you think
it would ever be viable and I'm so
politically ignorant so maybe you're
just gonna laugh me out of the room
could you socialize legal defense
education and health care like do you
think that would be viable as a hybrid
where it's a democracy it's it's a
capitalist driven system but you take
the the money therefore the corruption
that takes us like the business of
medicine versus the art of medicine are
completely different things you know now
give you a pill so you can live and then
we'll give you another pill to deal with
the ramifications that the side effects
of the pill we gave you versus
the cure got fucking shelved you know
cuz there wasn't a rev model behind it
yeah do you think we could ever would
would that ever work I think education
in healthcare for sure can be socialized
the questions would you get the same
education the same health care if it
wasn't socialized I think as long as you
had private options you would and then
the problem is well how much funds go
towards these public education solutions
versus the private options that have the
answers yeah that's that's already the
issue and that's because when people
want look if someone is excelling at
something whatever that is whether it's
teaching or their it's you know being an
orthopedic surgeon they want to be
rewarded for their efforts plus they've
probably cured acquired a massive amount
of debt right they if you're a
orthopedic surgeon you've gone through
Medical School there's a strong chance
that you're deeply in debt by the time
you start cutting people and that's a
real problem
it's a real problem because that also
incentivizes them to perform surgeries
that are not unnecessary that are
unnecessary rather and you find you hear
about that all the time I mean there's a
lot of doctors who just want to start
cutting people you know and they don't
have proactive solutions like listen
let's this this might take a long time
but let's let's try to rehabilitate this
first let's particularly with like back
issues well that's all gone yeah I
remember when I first started having my
health issues you know I'm epileptic and
when I first started looking into that
and they were throwing darts at the wall
for a decade I don't know could be
discovered that endocrinologist
cardiology all these different
specialists and literally the
cardiologist sits me down and it's like
okay so here's what here's what life
with the pacemaker is like we're gonna
do this I'm like well back the fuck up
like show me the math like I'm far from
a doctor but I'm kind of an engineering
guys so like show me the math like this
is a result of that which causes that as
indicated by this therefore we're gonna
do this couldn't it's like well we just
figured you know it's probably a safe
measure and like so you haven't even
seen anything that clearly defines that
that's even the issue and your fuck you
I'm out of here like well he's dealing
with 15 people a day yeah he's probably
exhausted
Lonnie's got a big note and yep big loan
mm-hmm and also a little desensitized
they get desensitized to people struggle
and you know did you you and I talked
about this but did you look into
ketogenic diets did you ever look into
the idea of ketogenic diets and how it
benefits epilepsy I did just to the
extent of doing some Google research
promptly after our discussion and I also
was looking into medical marijuana
approaches to it but again the beautiful
state of California is such that I lose
my license if I don't take the chemicals
that big pharma promote because they do
biannual blood tests so even if test you
for those chemicals oh they do blood
tests to make sure you're on the shit
but wait that's well is that just
assuming there's no way to cure epilepsy
correct that seems insane because
there's especially with all the proof in
is CDB CBD CBD solutions right and it's
been medically verified but the state
won't acknowledge it so if you choose to
go that route not only obviously your
insurance company won't pay for it but
you lose your license and everything
else related to its regulation but would
go through all of that and you have no
issues like what if you could prove that
your epilepsy is in remission then that
can work but it takes a year or longer
to be able to prove that Jesus Christ so
you have to take medication yeah
unfortunately I haven't had a seizure in
years so I'm stoked yeah I have a friend
he'd taken and his son has issues is
epilepsy and he got him on CBD knit
stopped dead in his tracks young boy -
his like three years old mm-hmm yeah
stopped dead in his tracks yeah it's um
CBD is an issue or a solution for some
people with some people with epilepsy
ketogenic diets are another one they
actually started using those on certain
team members that were using rebreathers
so certain seals and team members that
were using these rebreathers some of
them would have seizures for some reason
you know rebreathers or it's not a scuba
gear today set up and one of the ways
they found to mitigate that was to put
them putting them on ketogenic diets
there's something about your body
burning fat
opposed to carbohydrates that lends
itself to stopping these sort of
seizures and they don't completely
understand why or whether or not it
works on everybody that's a lot of
research - in the cancer field in
regards to diet impacts is pretty
phenomenal dad out yeah it is yeah yeah
one of the things that I'm hoping out of
this coronavirus scare is if people
start taking their health more seriously
you know and your immune system and just
maybe if something hits you and you're
in a compromised state you're so much
worse off then if you're in a healthy
state I mean it literally is like having
insurance on your body being able to
defend itself from an outside attack
yeah that's what a virus says stop yeah
listen to it honor it yeah she'll stop
your roll get better keep your defense
up keep your strength up I mean that
that is literally the benefit of a
healthy diet and exercise is your body
functions better and it can ward off
attacks and that's what people have to
think about when you the flu comes
around or anything comes around that's
an attack it's an attack by a viral
entity and if you have weak defense if
you have a poor immune system if your
body is already compromised because of
tobacco use and drugs and all these
various things it can wreck your system
and you don't exercise and you're gonna
get around to it but you never do and
you eat like shit well guess what man
you have no fucking tools you have no no
weapons to defend yourself against this
entity I'm worried about Jamie right now
like I'm not letting her filler car up a
gas go to the bank yeah anywhere like me
and my younger son Quinn who's still at
home like let us handle everything yes
your immune system is severely
challenged right now just finish chemo
like lockdown but you need to go to work
and build people because we got to meet
payroll but other than the other than
that like let's stay low that's yeah
heads it's up it's such a trying time
it's I'm just really hoping it's a
wake-up call for some people that they
really understand how important it is
it's not there's there's so many
intelligent people that I know that
treat exercise and diet and just your
own physical well-being as if it's a
frivolous pursuit
shallow-minded people that that want to
you know the the egotistical vain people
that want to have nice bodies and it's
for fools you know that the intelligent
person concentrates on the mind the
Intel but I think that's a really it's
an that is in itself it's an
unintelligent way to approach it it's
not holistic you should treat your mind
as if it's a part of your body right and
that's that's again it's more of that
polarization that unfortunately we were
seeing in the last ten years that's just
growing exponentially so that's one
thing I hope out of this is that us
amongst ourselves as Americans and as a
larger family of people who only have
one globe to live on I hope there's more
I hope to see this create more cohesion
more more of a unification amongst all
mankind yes to realize we all are
dealing to different extents with the
same challenges the same potentials the
same liabilities and get people back
tribally like together yeah I couldn't
agree more and I think that sometimes it
takes a real outside challenge to bring
us together very scare yeah a scare I
think this is a scare I mean it's a
challenge and it's such a reminder
because I've always felt this it's also
fragile right like even our Western
reality like okay just just from a small
business owner right like I think it's
probably fair to say that nationwide any
business that's under say whatever 20
million a year our kind of hand to mouth
give or take a couple months yes right
then you look at our distribution
systems our infrastructure all of it
it's it's also fragile so any arrogance
because of convenience or wealth or
resources or connections that we all
have it's pretty quick that none of that
shit matters yeah then like it's also
fragile but I hope again that there's a
positive spin to that where people can
understand and acknowledge that and
therefore learn and connect and have
greater consideration for
our neighbors ourselves our own bodies
our mine our spirit but like get people
more connected and like face out of
their fucking phones yeah I'm really
interesting really interested to see
what happens coming out of San Francisco
because they're the first ones to impose
a real lockdown like you're not even
supposed to go to work I don't know how
they can say that I don't know how they
can do that and I don't know what's
gonna come out of that you know but
again they're still dealing with
medieval diseases on this tree because
people are shitting everywhere I mean so
you're really concerned with a Portland
should have been first well I mean
you're really concerned with with
people's health and you've got people
literally dying on people's cars all
over Haight Ashbury I mean it's it's
fucking not San Francisco is there's
apps where you can see the human waste
scattered out throughout the city so you
can you can people when they see human
shit they entered into the app and it's
spectacularly disgusting when you look
at the map of San Francisco and and
human shit it's all over the place and
they don't do a goddamn thing about it
and you know they seem to think that
these people need help and these people
need but it's like if they're those
people were murdering people or
assaulting people ever if all homeless
people assaulted people would they treat
it the same way well you know they would
say well these people are breaking the
law now we're gonna arrest them well
they're breaking the law they should be
breaking the law if they're camping out
and throwing garbage everywhere to I'm
not saying you should arrest all of them
but you need to do something you can't
just look at it like it's not a gigantic
Public Health Service vexing vexing
issue man that the diversity of
situations and stories that lead people
to be into that situation is so
complicated it is and you're gonna see
more of it if you force people to be out
of work for like the OPC is a big
charity in LA that's working on that
that that my children's charities had
some sort of Kevin Bacon moments of
interrelationship and I look at all the
efforts of charities like theirs and how
they address it and it's like fuck
that's a tough one like I don't
understand how how you'd even approach
it's gotten so far gone I mean it should
have been nipped in the bud they should
have figured out a way to stop it as it
was happening and put a considerable
amount of resources towards that but all
these other problems seem to be more on
the forefront and more on people's mind
when
when it comes to elections and so they
just sort of let it happen I think like
you said back with Reagan there not
being a forcible state multiple state
lawsuits against the federal government
because of the load put on the state
systems by that federal change in the
limit of health care for for mental
issues yeah that was really kind of the
root of it right I mean I grew up in New
York City in the 70s and it was a
fucking zoo but that now even pales to
what you're seeing like I went to visit
a supplier three weeks ago in downtown
LA and like just trying to drive down
his street to get in his parking lot it
was like it was like a circus man yeah
and like they've not only taken over the
curb in the street they're walking down
the middle of the street with an
attitude like I shouldn't be driving on
this street and like half the businesses
on the block literally gave up and
closed down and they can't even like my
friend wanted to move his company and
the realtor is like Senor fucking dream
and it's like never gonna sell this
building right now like look at this
neighborhood and there's nothing they're
doing yeah they didn't I don't know you
know it just keeps getting worse when I
was filming fear factor down there in
the early 2000s it was bad I mean I was
like does everyone know about Skid Row
like this is crazy you drive down Skid
Row and you go what in the fuck is this
is a zombie movie and it is tenfold
worse now there's 70,000 homeless people
in Los Angeles I mean that that's an
enormous amount of people that's you
know the way I describe it is it's
basically almost the size of Boulder
Colorado
but homeless are the entire city of
Boulder homeless that's what it's like
it's crazy how many people there are and
that's just document they don't really
know how many there are
I mean it's it's an enormous number
there's just a rough estimate and that's
like all these kovat estimates wait a
minute yeah in the two minutes ago you
were saying no no that's a test so how
are we supposed to trust any fucking
thing you're telling yeah no one has any
idea and also the fact that so many
people are asymptomatic so they're
warning around with it and you know and
the real issue is the immune compromised
folks and then I'm worried as a business
owner like at some point in my
disrespecting my employees my culture by
staying open like should I be closing or
my breathing into it's like I'm torn
between this is social media gone wrong
too much hype and too much bullshit
versus speaking to friends a friend
who's a scientist in the viral field and
what she's telling me and friends who
are doctors and a friend is a doctor in
Milan and the shitshow he's dealing with
it's like okay no it's not just like but
it's it's it's very interesting trying
to I think all of us in all over lives
right now picking our paths picking our
priorities how do we address this but
then as a business owner again in
California there's liabilities to how
you address or don't address it mm yeah
that's it's very interesting do you
think you'd move to Texas no couldn't do
it frankly if it got that bad you'd quit
I'd rather sell the company into someone
who thinks they're smarter than me and
they can do it and scale it and go there
I just stay in my happy space and just
make leather jackets yeah just make shit
travel the world spend time with
craftsmen spend time with my family when
you're you mean you've you know made
this very very successful business and
very I hesitate to use word iconic but
it is do you have goals outside of what
you've already done or do you just do
what you enjoy doing I do what I enjoy
doing having said that I I need to
listen to the capitalist Pig on my right
shoulder versus the creative geek on my
left shoulder in that I we've been quite
successful as a company I'm honored how
many people know the brand but I haven't
like amassed some you know great
personal wealth if the shit blows up
tomorrow you know I'm looking for a job
you know so I need to figure out how to
cash in so to speak on the the the
equity the brand is created in ways that
don't step on the brands we we so like
I'm dying to get into all different
aspects of industrial design I'd love to
do that on my own or through
collaborations but I think my goal would
be to diversify my product line
to keep revisiting classic design in a
modern context but in many different
ways and many different product signals
so like I am right now on part of the
trip to Mexico and and to Morocco those
trips were in the last three years of
practice and building prototype wallets
and you know sort of side hustle on
Instagram and stuff is really getting
granular with it because I do want to
start a leather goods brand as to make a
jacket like that I'll buy it that jacket
looks sweet
yeah wallets and belts and jobs you make
them the champs dude I literally like
this this jacket is like hand cut hand
stitched hand not a single machine used
like shitshow commercially unviable but
I'm working with hor Wien leathers in
Chicago and a friend's brand called
black bear and we're like studying
different patterns and prototyping so I
think I'm pretty soon I'm gonna launch
like a limited run kick-ass jacket
that's like layers a story down to why
that leather and who made it and how and
on and on and on I'm in yeah tell me
what commands art exploring well I was
like ready to go and now I'm thinking
I'm an idiot to start a new brand right
now so I'm well for a bit yeah who knows
what the fuck is gonna happen this
economy and like I said I'm really
interested to see what happens out of
San Francisco because they I think
they've imposed a three week mandatory
lockdown yes that is a long time to go
without income a long long time
especially the burn rate of a company in
my size mm-hmm yeah yeah yeah that's
what people don't understand I mean I
mean when someone looks at something
that you create like an icon Bronco and
you know they look at the expense of
that thing and how boy it must be nice
like that's crazy like this guy must be
making look at four-thirty group yeah
well they just the that I mean I went to
visit the car when you're making it the
level of detail is off the charts from
the polyuria coding of every fucking
component under undercarriage of the car
to the media blasting this and they're
replacing all the bolts and all the
wiring all of this you know you don't
really understand what it's like to see
a handmade car built from the ground
unless you watch it yeah being built
from the ground up asinine stupid yeah
business the amount of money it goes to
debt costs to build one of those things
is fucking crazy you know when people
think of a car oh but you can get an
f-150 for 39 grand which I look at and
go how is that possible like that's
amazing you guys can do it I'm gonna
pick it apart all we want oh that's
amazing it is amazing robots I mean I
mean efficiency of the production modern
production line look at this all blows
up tomorrow I have had multiple lives in
multiple careers that have all been
amazing experiences I wouldn't change an
a single aspect of my life thus far
other than my wife's cancer battle like
it's just been an amazing ride and if
your shit all blows up tomorrow and this
is as far as it goes
I'm honestly I'm stoked it's been
amazing the perfect world I'll keep
pushing limits I'll keep trying new
platforms I'll keep pushing tech and as
long as I'm able to not have a real job
I am just super stoked yeah well that's
the key that's a goal the goal is to get
through life without a real job right
totally no like literally we ran it
about this if anyone wants to listen to
our first podcast when we first met and
just we've geeked out for hours and
hours but like the whole educational
system alone like should be focused on
helping our youth understand what
they're passionate about if someone
finds their passion and you make it
their life they're a happier individual
and they're gonna break new ground and
be of great value versus trying to fit
everyone into these bullshit social
silos most of which are broken and
overflowing now like the Watson computer
is better than general counsel like at a
huge percentage difference if AI can
outdo these lawyers in like coming out
of school and six digits of debt and
they can't get jobs you know that model
doesn't even work anymore so let's get
back to like honoring tinkerers and
craftsman and free thinkers and
innovators and there ya encouraging
people to think outside the box
totally encouraging people to be
creative and I think there's also an
issue in teaching people at scale you
know I just I don't I think people need
individual attention they need some sort
of a
mentor figure that can tell them hey I
did what you're doing I went through
what you've gone but just understanding
that individual kid and understanding is
does he learn best by seeing does he
learn best by doing does he learn be
like even understanding that interface
yeah yeah it's um it's a mess you know
and the only thing that gives me hope is
now because the internet there's so many
other resources for kids there's so many
YouTube videos they can watch and so
many articles they can read and there's
so many just there's documentaries
there's all these different stories of
someone like them that also followed a
dream mm-hmm and you know when I was a
kid there was none of that shit that's
true like I didn't even know you could
being an industrial designer was a
career path sure I was well beyond
having the opportunity to have properly
trained it well there was no such thing
as being a podcaster right now I mean it
didn't exist but now it exists and
there's nine hundred thousand podcasts
literally really oh it's so crazy they
think one there's some crazy number like
it's one out of every 400 people in
America has a podcast and it's mostly
yeah is that a real number what is the
number there's three hundred thirty
million people yeah that's the number
right a million podcasts close to it one
and yeah hundred fifty it's in the
neighborhood it's in the neighborhood of
one out of every four but even you right
you had no idea no idea yeah no I know
but I mean you didn't know the magic
carpet ride you were getting on no you
did this as a passion play right yeah
wanted to have interesting conversations
and meet diverse people and you kind of
needed a gig right you wanted to this
sort of was a I don't want to say a
hobby but it grew very organically for
you hundred percent organic you had no
clue was gonna turn into this Empire of
craziness right no it costed money for
most of the time it was just for fun
yeah it was a hundred percent just for
fun and an opportunity to get together
with my friends one of the things that
I've figured out early on that's
beautiful I love the honesty of that
yeah it is yeah I mean but one of the
things I figured out early on is I I
spend the most time with my friends when
we sit down and do podcasts because then
there's no phones involved it's just
three hours just talking to each other
whereas
you know if we go to a restaurant we'll
talk for a little bit but we only do it
once every now and then and they're on
the road and I'm on the road and so
getting together was like a communal
thing and then it became a clubhouse
thing and then we started doing it at
the ice house so is that a comedy club
so we do it when coincide with shows and
that was a lot of fun and then slowly
but surely the numbers started growing
and as the numbers started growing then
I started getting guests and then as I
started getting guests I started
understanding what I'm actually doing
and getting better at talking to people
and then realizing that no will you do
anything like linking up with one person
the less distractions the better the
less bullshit the better it's just you
and a person talking and then I got
better at that and then I started
thinking about what I'm doing wrong what
I'm doing I realize like oh this is a
skill just like everything else is a
skill like being annoying to listen to
is a failure to do the job right like
you're not it's not just that that's who
you are
that's not what it is it's just you're
you are who you are because of a lack of
attention I mean I've done tons of
interviews and tons of podcasts and tons
of media over my various careers and
stuff and I honestly like you know our
conversations and the my last experience
here and again talking with you today
man I love it like there's such great
conversations and I honestly like it's
we were direct in eye contact it's been
personal it's about whatever the hell we
come up with that we end up just
naturally flowing into and that's so
it's so rare it's what's rare for people
to listen to to and for for me it's it's
very educational and it's also the
beautiful thing about it is that the
only people I'm talking to is people I
want to talk to so there's no one that's
telling me who to talk to so you know
when I reach out to you and it said hey
man you wanna do another one yeah if I
got let's do it all right exciting so
it's only people I'm interested in
talking to so that makes it so much
better for the listeners as well because
you're getting genuine enthusiasm just
like me when clients call them ya know
something that sounds like it would suck
and I'm not interested yes so less s
right well we have the power to say no
yeah
trol what we do what we say yes to what
we say no to as long as the market
allows both of us to do that we'll stay
in our little happy place for sure I
what I hope out of this coronavirus
thing is other than people stay healthy
of course is that people do revisit what
they do with their lives as well and
recognize that the fact that all this
shit can go away and even if you're a
good boy and you show up at work every
day for some fucking job that sucks and
you feel like you're putting your time
and you're doing the right thing they
could take that shit away from you ain't
none of us getting out of here alive
yeah exactly
and you can jump off that fucking chip
and I bet you can make it to the shore I
bet you can but you you have to do the
due diligence you got to do the work and
you have to understand like this is not
going to be easy this is nothing that's
worth doing is easy but I think once
someone understands the importance of
being impassioned about what they do
even like with what relationships
they're in how they spend their time you
know what they scheduled their day about
once you really own that to a deep
extent like the risk it's it's not even
debatable leave the shit job leave the
unhealthy relationship take better care
of yourself your body or whatever but
like once you make that first acceptance
and understanding the rest of its Brees
it'll be such a happier world if people
have that connections they will and I'm
with you I hope that grows from this one
of the unintended positive side effects
of podcast is that they get to listen to
people that have done that people like
you and and other people that have had
on that are living their life the way
that they chose to and they realize like
this is and then you get to hear the
story like oh this isn't like they
weren't handed this they didn't get a
willy wonka golden ticket they had a
passion and then they followed yeah I
had 10 grand to piece-of-shit cars and
for credit cards I started the company
and I walked away from a lucrative
career
yeah that's walked away there's a
million stories like that you know and
those are the fun ones those are the fun
stories I'm just happy there's people
out there that are living that example
you know and I really do hope that some
people I mean it's not for everybody but
some people out there that are hearing
this that are in this situation like
fuck like I
I did all the right things and my job is
still gone now and my you know my
pension 401k tanked the real problems
people with families people with
families and people with mortgages and
they can't jump but they have leases
they have you know rent to pay and it
still argument nights and weekends stay
up a little later nights and weekends
nights and weekends even if it just
gives you the creative creative juice
yet that juju flowing and then you can
dabble in is there a rev model is this a
viable business or where can it go but
man nights and weekends staying like
motivated and excited and thinking and
stretching and trying versus just you
know plugging in and watching the same
shit being guest on our throat by media
like there's so much that can be done
even just at that level the effort to
push that car and then jumpstart it as
it gets rolling it's really hard to push
that car but if you can get it going
enough and jump in and push the clutch
in and throw it in the first and part
you know and then it's then it's moving
but it's that initial effort it's so
fucking hard but once you do it like
this podcast is easy to do now it's easy
just show up and do it it's easy but you
do it from scratch if someone had to
start it tomorrow if you think it's
gonna be easy it's not I look back
actually just today I was going through
an image catalog as updating the site
and how to remember what it was it was
some some image I was editing for the
site I was going fuck this is
complicated like looking back it's it
seemed it seems somewhat easy like
there's so many aspects and so much
complexity in this business that looking
back at it like well the fuck did I pull
that off like it grew merely out of the
passion and when there wasn't by focus
groups or you know analysis or anything
it was I just fucking jumped in and
started doing it made it work and you
keep grinding that's the thing the grind
is amazing because it does really
achieve results you just keep doing it
you keep doing you keep working keep
showing up keep pouring your passion to
it and then you look back two years
three years five years you go holy shit
look at the distance look at all this
look at all the projects look at all the
stuff that's been done
went through a year before we did this I
went through your YouTube channel and I
started looking at some of the newer
projects some of the older projects I'm
like look at the fucking amount of work
that's coming out of your shop it's
really crazy yeah it's pretty nuts it's
amazing
330 some vehicles out of Ikon and then a
couple thousand out of the first brand
entity if what is that like a week at a
GM not even right how many days is that
it's like on cars part that's like it's
like a half day probably right yeah it's
cool though I mean it's it's a very
unique field the field of people making
cars you know I would hate to see the
regulations and all the bullshit get
down to you I love the fact that you're
a 15 minute drive away and go check out
the shop yeah we'll beat them it just
sucks that I have to convince them that
I'm a valued member of California's
crazy society and especially the city
they should be so pumped that you're
there I mean I don't get it he used to
be mayor Villaraigosa family the damn
building personally like like they were
they were great but I don't know I think
you know what a lot of people are
telling me and we're seeing this even at
Bureau of automotive repair California
resource forces there's a lot more
regulation occurring now because since
California and the Trump administration
have gotten pretty deep in this argument
over does California have the right to
create its own air quality control
mandates or not that it's sucking so
much money out of the California system
that they're having to scramble to come
up with new reve models so like a lot of
aftermarket automotive like for off-road
use only marketed parts they're now
pursuing the distributor the
manufacturer the retailer the fucking
web host the consumer and like
penalizing everyone up and down the
chain mmm to create this Rev mob to keep
it keep it going it's it's a real bummer
man it's a real bummer I mean I
understand the the desire to keep air
quality high but I don't understand that
you're using all these cars that are you
know you're using these
emission compliant engines I mean these
LS engines are using is crazy yeah I'm
putting cats and systems into cars that
never had a remember yeah all the
vehicles that we create actually emit
less being driven like an idiot than the
stock one did sitting in a parking lot
not even being driven if just by fact of
the charcoal canister in the non-vented
fuel system just that alone just that
alone so just sitting amounts in co2
yeah oh yeah because it was the the
tanks it was vaporizing out and all
those particulates go flying
well it's no different than a modern car
was my point I mean if you buy a modern
f150 or you buy one of your cars which
with a crate engine it's the same it's
the same as far as the amount that it
releases into the ass and we're exempt
you know all the platform years are the
vast majority of them that preset right
you know pre 75 but I'm just doing it
because it's you'd be a dumbass not to
it's the right thing there's yeah and
it's not like the 90s where you're
putting in EGR and the smog pumps and
five miles of vacuum tubes and shit
that's not going to be reliable I mean
now it's all about wideband o2 spree cat
post Caddo to boom-boom and a clean
program and like it it's better it's a
better experience what about hydrogen
has anybody come up with a viable method
of I mean I know that uh there's people
that have done some hydrogen systems and
cars have you ever fucked with that no
and I've been curious about it but from
what I understood the distribution of
hydrogen was the big deal breaker in
that hydrogen that is readily
distributed if I recall correctly was a
lower grade that would not work in the
systems required for hydrogen powered
automobiles mmm so it was a complete
infrastructure shitshow to get it to the
point of viable seem with like capstone
that was doing those micro turbines out
in Chatsworth Canoga Park it I don't
know what's I don't seem quite quite
viable what was it micro turbines so
turbochargers and but they're micro it's
a full turbine so think industrial
commercial application turbines power
sources but for
road-going vessels oh so that was the
attorney for the VA yeah but apparently
they burned pretty dirty uh okay I don't
know what I'm talking about but that's
what I was told when I was starting to
dive into it I remember there was a nice
one in bloom box yeah whatever the fuck
they are oh shit
that sounded cool anything else should
we wrap this up
sure no just I love being here and I
really appreciate your time and your
intellect and your diversity and thank
you my thanks man I appreciate what you
do I really do I mean that I'm happy
there's Jonathan Ward's out there keep
on truckin all right bye everybody stay
safe stay healthy bye
[Music]